next 

English Alternative forms 

neest (dialectal) 

neist (Scotland) 

nex (archaic) 

nex' (dialectal) Etymology From Middle English nexte, nexste, nixte, from Old
English nīehsta, nīehste, etc., inflected forms of nīehst (“nearest, next”),
superlative form of nēah (“nigh, near”), corresponding to Proto-Germanic
*nēhwist (“nearest, closest”); equivalent to nigh + -est. Cognate with Saterland
Frisian naist (“next”), Dutch naast (“next”), German nächst (“next”), Danish
næste (“next”), Swedish näst (“next”), Icelandic næst (“next”), Persian نزد
(nazd, “near, with”). Pronunciation 

enPR: nĕ kst, IPA (key): / nɛkst / 

Audio (US) 

Rhymes: -ɛkst Adjective next (not comparable) 

Nearest in place or position, having nothing similar intervening; adjoining. The
man in the next bunk kept me awake all night with his snoring. She lives a mile
or two away, in the next village. (obsolete) Most direct, or shortest or nearest
in distance or time. 

Nearest in order, succession, or rank; immediately following (or sometimes
preceding) in order. Please turn to the next page. On Wednesday next, I'm going
to Spain. the next chapter; the next week; the Sunday next before Easter The man
was driven by his love for money and his desire to become the next Bill Gates. 

(chiefly law) Nearest in relationship. (See also next of kin.) next friend Usage
notes 

Near was originally the comparative form of nigh; the superlative form was next.
Nigh is used today mostly in archaic, poetic, or regional contexts. Synonyms 

(nearest in order): See also Thesaurus: former or Thesaurus: subsequent Antonyms

previous Derived terms 

next - day Determiner next 

Denotes the one immediately following the current or most recent one. Next week
would be a good time to meet. I'll know better next time. 

(of days of the week or months of the year) Closest in the future, or closest
but one if the closest is very soon; of days, sometimes thought to specifically
refer to the instance closest to seven days (one week) in the future. The party
is next Tuesday; that is, not tomorrow, but eight days from now. When you say
next Thursday, do you mean Thursday this week or Thursday next week? See also 

last 

this 

this coming 

week (as in Saturday week) Adverb next (not comparable) 

In a time, place, rank or sequence closest or following. They live in the next
closest house. It's the next best thing to ice cream. (conjunctive) So as to
follow in time or sequence something previously mentioned. First we removed all
the handles; next, we stripped off the old paint. 

On the first subsequent occasion. 

Financial panic, earthquakes, oil spills, riots. What comes next? When we next
meet, you'll be married. Antonyms 

previously Preposition next 

(obsolete or poetic) On the side of; nearest or adjacent to; next to. Noun next
(uncountable) 

The one that follows after this one. Next, please, don't hold up the queue! One
moment she was there, the next she wasn't. The week after next 

school 

English Pronunciation 

enPR: sko͞ol, IPA(key): / skuːl / 

Audio (Received Pronunciation) 

Rhymes: -uːl Etymology 1 

From Middle English scole, schole (“group of persons, multitude, host, school of
fish”), from Middle Dutch scole (“multitude, troop of people, swarm of
animals”), from Old Dutch *scola, *skola (“troop, multitude”), from
Proto-Germanic *skulō (“crowd”), from Proto-Indo-European *(s)kʷel- (“crowd,
people”). Cognate with Middle Low German schōle (“multitude, troop”), Old
English scolu (“troop or band of people, host, multitude, school of fish”).
Doublet of shoal. Alternative forms 

skull (obsolete) Noun 

school (1) of fish. school (plural schools) 

(collective) A group of fish or a group of marine mammals such as porpoises,
dolphins, or whales. 

The divers encountered a huge school of mackerel. 

A multitude. Synonyms 

(fish): shoal Verb school (third-person singular simple present schools, present
participle schooling, simple past and past participle schooled) 

(intransitive) (of fish) To form into, or travel in a school. Etymology 2 

Elementary school From Middle English scole, from Old English scōl (“place of
education”), from Proto-Germanic *skōla (“school”), from Late Latin schola,
scola (“learned discussion or dissertation, lecture, school”), from Ancient
Greek σχολεῖον (skholeîon), from σχολή (skholḗ, “spare time, leisure;
conversations and the knowledge gained through them during free time; the places
where these conversations took place”), from Proto-Indo-European *seǵʰ- (“to
hold, have, possess”). Doublet of schola and shul. Compare Old Frisian skūle,
schūle (“school”) (West Frisian skoalle, Saterland Frisian Skoule), Dutch school
(“school”), German Low German School (“school”), Old High German scuola
(“school”), Old Norse skóli (“school”). Influenced in some senses by Middle
English schole (“group of persons, host, company”), from Middle Dutch scole
(“multitude, troop, band”). See school1. Related also to Old High German sigi
(German Sieg, “victory”), Old English siġe, sigor (“victory”). Alternative forms
schole (obsolete) Noun school (countable and uncountable, plural schools) 

(US, Canada) An institution dedicated to teaching and learning; an educational
institution. Our children attend a public school in our neighborhood. Harvard
University is a famous American postsecondary school. 

(Britain) An educational institution providing primary and secondary education,
prior to tertiary education (college or university). 

(UK) At Eton College, a period or session of teaching. Divinity, history and
geography are studied for two schools per week. 

Within a larger educational institution, an organizational unit, such as a
department or institute, which is dedicated to a specific subject area. We are
enrolled in the same university, but I attend the School of Economics and my
brother is in the School of Music. 

An art movement, a community of artists. The Barbizon school of painters were
part of an art movement towards Realism in art, which arose in the context of
the dominant Romantic Movement of the time. 

(considered collectively) The followers of a particular doctrine; a particular
way of thinking or particular doctrine; a school of thought. These economists
belong to the monetarist school. 

The time during which classes are attended or in session in an educational
institution. I'll see you after school. 

The room or hall in English universities where the examinations for degrees and
honours are held. 

The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned by the
authority of a particular class or age. He was a gentleman of the old school. 

An establishment offering specialized instruction, as for driving, cooking,
typing, coding, etc. Synonyms 

(institution dedicated to teaching and learning): academy, college, university 

(organizational unity within an educational institution): college, department,
faculty, institute Hyponyms See also Thesaurus: school Coordinate terms
(institution providing primary and secondary education): nursery school,
kindergarten, college, polytechnic, university Verb school (third - person
singular simple present schools, present participle schooling, simple past and
past participle schooled) 

(transitive) To educate, teach, or train (often, but not necessarily, in a
school). 

Many future prime ministers were schooled in Eton. 

(transitive) To defeat emphatically, to teach an opponent a harsh lesson. 

(transitive) To control, or compose, one's expression. 

She took care to school her expression, not giving away any of her feelings. 

trust 

English Etymology 

From Middle English trust (“trust, protection”). Long considered a borrowing
from Old Norse traust (“confidence, help, protection”), itself from
Proto-Germanic *traustą, but the root vocalism is incompatible, and now it's
considered a reflex of an unattested Old English *trust, from a rare zero-grade
proto-Germanic variant of the same root also attested in Middle High German
getrüste (“host”). Ultimately from Proto-Indo-European *deru- (be firm, hard,
solid”). 

Akin to Danish trøst (“comfort, solace”), Saterland Frisian Traast (“comfort,
solace”), West Frisian treast (“comfort, solace”), Dutch troost (“comfort,
consolation”), German Trost (“comfort, consolation”), Gothic trausti (trausti,
“alliance, pact”). Doublet of tryst. More at true, tree. Pronunciation 

enPR: trŭst, IPA(key): /trʌst/, [tɹʌst], [tɹɐst], [t͡ʃɹ-] 

(Northern England) IPA(key): /trʊst/ 

Audio (GA) 

Rhymes: -ʌst Noun trust (countable and uncountable, plural trusts) 

Confidence in or reliance on some person or quality. He needs to regain her
trust if he is ever going to win her back. to lose trust in someone build up
trust a relationship built on mutual trust 

Dependence upon something in the future; hope. 

Confidence in the future payment for goods or services supplied; credit. I was
out of cash, but the landlady let me have it on trust. 

That which is committed or entrusted; something received in confidence; a
charge. 

That upon which confidence is reposed; ground of reliance; hope. 

(rare) Trustworthiness, reliability. 

The condition or obligation of one to whom anything is confided; responsible
charge or office. 

(law) The confidence vested in a person who has legal ownership of a property to
manage for the benefit of another. I put the house into my sister's trust. 

(law) An arrangement whereby property or money is given to be held by a third
party (a trustee), on the basis that it will be managed for the benefit of, or
eventually transferred to, a stated beneficiary; for example, money to be given
to a child when he or she reaches adulthood. 

A group of businessmen or traders organised for mutual benefit to produce and
distribute specific commodities or services, and managed by a central body of
trustees. 

(computing) Affirmation of the access rights of a user of a computer system.
Synonyms 

(confidence in a person or quality) belief, confidence, faith 

(hope) expectation, hope Antonyms 

distrust 

mistrust 

untrust 

wantrust Verb trust (third-person singular simple present trusts, present
participle trusting, simple past and past participle trusted) 

(transitive) To place confidence in, to rely on, to confide in. We cannot trust
anyone who deceives us. 

(intransitive, with in) To have faith in; to rely on for continuing support or
aid. In God We Trust (official US motto) 

(transitive) To give credence to; to believe; to credit. 

(transitive) To hope confidently; to believe (usually with a phrase or
infinitive clause as the object) I trust you have cleaned your room? 

(transitive) to show confidence in a person by entrusting them with something. 

(transitive) To commit, as to one's care; to entrust. 

(transitive) To give credit to; to sell to upon credit, or in confidence of
future payment. Merchants and manufacturers trust their customers annually with
goods. 

(intransitive followed by to To rely on (something), as though having trust (on
it). to trust to luck Having lost the book, he had to trust to his memory for
further details. 

(archaic, transitive To risk; to venture confidently. 

(intransitive) To have trust; to be credulous; to be won to confidence; to
confide. 

(archaic, intransitive To sell or deliver anything in reliance upon a promise of
payment; to give credit. Antonyms 

distrust 

mistrust Adjective trust (comparative more trust, superlative most trust) 

(obsolete) Secure, safe. 

(obsolete) Faithful, dependable. 

(law) of or relating to a trust. 

Now after last episodes's amazing conclusion where Napoli they beat us in the
first leg of the Champions League quarter-finals and then we brought it to them
in the second leg, and now advancing into the semi-finals against Manchester
City, today's episode is gonna start off with three games that you know aren't
as hard as the last couple of matches we've had, and then on uh 27th of April,
we have Manchester City in the first leg of the semi-finals, which is going to
be possibly one of the hardest games I'm gonna be playing because Napoli has
given me our game and Manchester City I know the way they play, they're exactly
like Napoli. So we're just gonna start off straightaway with a simulated match
against Benevento. We're gonna play one of these three games just to get in the
mood of playing games this episode. We've got a pretty rotated lineup Jović
scoring, van de Beek and Ibrahimovic coming on 3-1 victory. Bakayoko getting
himself a red card. Now I've mentioned that earlier in the Serie A UVA has just
ran away with the Scudetto 89 points and right behind them is Napoli us with 76.
The Scudetto was gonna be tough all the time you've as just way too strong.
Genoa is the next match coming up and I'm going to be playing this match because
it's at home. I'd like to maybe play some of our Academy players in this match.
The last match he scored Jović so I'm gonna continue hopefully his form in this
game. He's up top with Galano. Galano started off well three goals and then just
hasn't scored. I don't know. I thought he was gonna be such a good future star
but he's still young so maybe he can get himself some goals here. Paquetá and
almost starting Paquetá over Bennacer van de Beek, Tonali. We have Todibo,
Alderweireld in defense and obviously in goal we have Gigio. Like I said, the
Scudetto if it wasn't gonna be this season, I'm pushing all for next season in
the Champions League. I think we're gonna have to just try and go all-out and
win it in our first season back. That would be something incredibly special, but
before we do that we need to get through Manchester City and that is a poor pass
by Paquetá. Here's Paquetá now finding Galano, Galano is in behind that is great
stuff Galano and maybe could have went to ground opportunity for him good pass
by Paquetá. Sandro Tonali, Luca Jović, he's gonna touch it and try to hit it. I
didn't ah - I should have maybe taken it a little bit inside the box, but you
know what, that resulted in a corner and God forbid we would get anything off
corners. Jović, turned, van de Beek, looking for something. He finds Galano in
some space, somebody take a shot. Ok Favilli and of what? How ... what sorry
what how is there a penalty what just happened? One minute it looked like it was
gonna be a corner, the next Favilli is scoring a penalty and we're one nil down.
Ball gets played in uh all right apparently Alderweireld clipped Favilli. Genoa
take the lead one nil after doing absolutely nothing all match. Van de Beek,
Paquetá, now Theo, Theo can finally cross to the back post deep, but uh how many
times how many times is he gonna get an overhead kick and miss. This guy has
scored overhead kicks from my field and cannot finish a simple bicycle kick in
the Box even a moment, I'm going to release you. Welcome to Adam gets frustrated
about losing against Genoa, one nil complete BS, how we didn't score, how they
got a penalty, to make things worse we need to play Manchester City, who today's
ah is next we're down to 4th place and who the next is in 14th place, but
because I'm gonna simulate this, it's gonna make me win for sure. No remark on
Conti, Todibo, Musacchio, Bakker, probably not the best back line but that's
what I'm going with. Paquetá scoring one Jović scoring two very happy they took
Leão off but they brought on Ibrahimovic so he's gonna be tired. It's a 3-1
victory, Genoa was just some BS. We did it we made it to the semi - finals And I
just want to check out what the club objective was for the Champions League this
season they wanted us to reach the semi-finals they thought that with the club
we had and the players we had we could have made it to the semis and we did. 

As in the game battle bus has launched one more time, the Fortnite World Cup
Finals ends right here. 

All 100 players on your screen there, Jack, Bugha, sitting out in front of
everyone thus far a commanding lead. Kreo the winner of the previous game flying
in there the northeast corner of the map. Spread of players across the screen,
there's your top ten on the left side, Bugha, Psalm, Kreo, Skite, Nayte,
Riversan, Rhux and the rest. Average placements thus far of 25th for Kreo, only
8 eliminations but 30 points enough to put him in third place thus far. One
thing to remember from yesterday, Nayte and Saf held on to the lead the first
five games and it slipped away in Game six. Bugha has been in the lead for all
five games. He has never lost the first place spot. Will he suffer the same fate
or can he close it out right here to remain our Fortnite world champ? 

Bugha by the way he is from Pennsylvania 16 year old player, Sentinels,
qualified the very first week for the World Cup. 

So he just got his first part-time job to try to start earning money to buy
himself a car. But instead after this could walk away with three million
dollars, he's gonna walk on in and say I quit, can't wait for him to get home,
you know, imagine he wins three million dollars here, his parents gonna ask him
to take the trash out and he's gonna laugh. 

Yeah right. 

Pay his butler to do that, I guess at that point. Celce currently set up many
builds, one of these very early awkward fights, sees those as well. You look at
those what he has, common infantry rifle 25 shots and a drum gun. 

Jack, one of the first four to go down in this match is Skite, who was in the
old place already, already gone from that top spot. If I do – as he throws them
down, can you see all the players surrounded outside the sunny side of the map?
Celce he continues to bounce around for a moment, any AR shots left, will get
solved at the end, right? Which's good, anything good counts. The farming of
stone continues, Maufin and Zayt outside of Loot Lake just fighting on the
outskirts of it. 

He's just kind of building walling against any pressure from Zayt, doesn't want
to get caught on rotation. Interesting load, that gold combat very early. That's
a very solid pickup to start this match, single shockwave remaining, legendary
grenade launcher drop gun and as well. We talk about a great starting inventory,
BlastR in a fight, outside Pressure Plant but you're only 73 HP, but again
you're this far to the tournament, you kind of get simpler, you just kind of go
for it, you got to just forge and engage. What's up? Shot comes on through, not
able to get it done as of yet. BlastR still healing up, will have bandages to
get back up to take 75 HP. Looks like Tfue picking up in elimination. To see how
things play out. 90 players remaining. The first circle starts to close in 50
seconds. Bandaging on the egg BlastR is just hanging out here. That player down
below gonna see if he can take shots here in a second. Tchub was gonna roll all
the way down looks like no engagement gonna happen. Here, JarkoS, letw1k3, two
players that have faced off against each other a number of times, gonna go for
the wall. Yes, the angle inside and pushes on through a solid aggressive play.
letw1k3 pick up his first elimination of Game six. 

Very clean and that will end JarkoS' Fortnite World Cup run, solid performance
earlier on. We'll see where he stacks up with the rest of this lobby when it's
all said and done. Reminder this is our final game here tonight. Use the hashtag
#FortniteWorldCup get it trending just like yesterday. Well, I've said the
millions of people watching online, Psalm was our player as well near the top of
the leaderboards. What could he do in this last game? Could he make the trek to
try to catch up to Bugha who was 15 points, 15 points ahead, in first. Pika one
v. one and angled down through a handful of edits here at Megamall is gonna push
around the side and try and make his way inside mall itself. Pika earned 12 of
his total points in just the last match and I think that says a lot about what
is possible. In 11th place when we rolled into this game Pika trying to find a
way inside, pushing down through the outside. Does in fact get the wall replace,
are you kidding me? Used the shockwave to get down the wall. The player inside
was smacking out of it. He, that's unbelievable. He called the bluff, he called
the bluff. The guy was trying to break the wall to secure for his own. Pika was
like "okay, break the wall for me, I'll just replace it with my own." He does
just that. Pika, full HP, two slurp juices, 6 minis, a very good assault for the
shotgun but looks like the aggression doesn't end here. He can just continue to
play these box fights by using the shockwave to try to chomp down this opponent
again. Said it once, it surprised you to use that same tactic you've seen. 

At this point, 100 HP, 100 shield. I do not blame him for being aggressive here,
knowing that players may be a little sparse in terms of loot. He's trying to
track Kinstaar on the outside rotating around the edge of Megamall. These two
players gonna end up on top of each other before you know it, oh my gosh, floor
loot. 

Okay. 

A heavy sniper rifle. 

That's end of another slurp. Okay. 

He's looking for it. See him watching, waiting. 

Does use those audio cues to try and track down the opponent underneath opts to
back out of the fight for just a second. Get a different angle because awareness
inside Megamall is insane knowing exactly where his opponents are and exactly
when to push. 

Roe v. Wade 

Supreme Court of the United States 

410 U.S. 113 

Roe v. Wade 

Appeal from the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas

No. 70-18 Argued: December 13, 1971 --- Decided: January 22, 1973 

A pregnant single woman (Roe) brought a class action challenging the
constitutionality of the Texas criminal abortion laws, which proscribe procuring
or attempting an abortion except on medical advice for the purpose of saving the
mother's life. A licensed physician (Hallford), who had two state abortion
prosecutions pending against him, was permitted to intervene. A childless
married couple (the Does), the wife not being pregnant, separately attacked the
laws, basing alleged injury on the future possibilities of contraceptive
failure, pregnancy, unpreparedness for parenthood, and impairment of the wife's
health. A three-judge District Court, which consolidated the actions, held that
Roe and Hallford, and members of their classes, had standing to sue and
presented justiciable controversies. Ruling that declaratory, though not
injunctive, relief was warranted, the court declared the abortion statutes void
as vague and overbroadly infringing those plaintiffs' Ninth and Fourteenth
Amendment rights. The court ruled the Does' complaint not justiciable.
Appellants directly appealed to this Court on the injunctive rulings, and
appellee cross - appealed from the District Court's grant of declaratory relief
to Roe and Hallford. 

Held: 

1. While 28 U.S.C. 1253 authorizes no direct appeal to this Court from the grant
or denial of declaratory relief alone, review is not foreclosed when the case is
properly before the Court on appeal from specific denial of injunctive relief
and the arguments as to both injunctive and declaratory relief are necessarily
identical. P. 123. 

2. Roe has standing to sue; the Does and Hallford do not. Pp. 123-129. 

(a) Contrary to appellee's contention, the natural termination of Roe's
pregnancy did not moot her suit. Litigation involving pregnancy, which is
"capable of repetition, yet evading review," is an exception to the usual
federal rule that an actual controversy [p 114] must exist at review stages, and
not simply when the action is initiated. Pp. 124-125. 

(b) The District Court correctly refused injunctive, but erred in granting
declaratory, relief to Hallford, who alleged no federally protected right not
assertable as a defense against the good faith state prosecutions pending
against him. Samuels v. Mackell, 401 U.S. 66. Pp. 125-127. 

(c) The Does' complaint, based as it is on contingencies, any one or more of
which may not occur, is too speculative to present an actual case or
controversy. Pp. 127-129. 

3. State criminal abortion laws, like those involved here, that except from
criminality only a life-saving procedure on the mother's behalf without regard
to the stage of her pregnancy and other interests involved violate the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which protects against state action
the right to privacy, including a woman's qualified right to terminate her
pregnancy. Though the State cannot override that right, it has legitimate
interests in protecting both the pregnant woman's health and the potentiality of
human life, each of which interests grows and reaches a "compelling" point at
various stages of the woman's approach to term. Pp. 147-164. 

(a) For the stage prior to approximately the end of the first trimester, the
abortion decision and its effectuation must be left to the medical judgment of
the pregnant woman's attending physician. Pp. 163, 164. 

(b) For the stage subsequent to approximately the end of the first trimester,
the State, in promoting its interest in the health of the mother, may, if it
chooses, regulate the abortion procedure in ways that are reasonably related to
maternal health. Pp. 163, 164. 

(c) For the stage subsequent to viability the State, in promoting its interest
in the potentiality of human life, may, if it chooses, regulate, and even
proscribe, abortion except where necessary, in appropriate medical judgment, for
the preservation of the life or health of the mother. Pp. 163-164; 164-165. 

4. The State may define the term "physician" to mean only a physician currently
licensed by the State, and may proscribe any abortion by a person who is not a
physician as so defined. P. 165. 

5. It is unnecessary to decide the injunctive relief issue, since the Texas
authorities will doubtless fully recognize the Court's ruling [p115] that the
Texas criminal abortion statutes are unconstitutional. P. 166. 

BLACKMUN, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C.J., and
DOUGLAS, BRENNAN, STEWART, MARSHALL, and POWELL, JJ., joined. BURGER, C.J.,
post, p. 207, DOUGLAS, J., post, p. 209, and STEWART, J., post, p. 167, filed
concurring opinions. WHITE, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST,
J., joined, post, p. 221. REHNQUIST, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p.
171. [p 116] 

Exhibit 1.2 

SERVICES AGREEMENT 

This Services Agreement ("Services Agreement" or "Agreement") is entered into as
of the date noted below (the "Effective Date") between StartEngine Crowdfunding,
Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Company"), and Solutions Vending International,
Inc a ___DE corporation ("Customer" or "you"). 

1. Services 

Company agrees to make available to Customer the ability to present information
with respect to its securities offering (the "Offering") to Users, and to permit
Users to create and manage online accounts, view information regarding the
Customer, indicate interest in the Offering, and to subscribe to the Offering by
signing a subscription agreement or similar instrument and transmitting payment
instructions (together, the "Services"). A "User" means a natural person,
corporation or other entity that has established an account on the Company's
website. 

2. Fees and expenses 

a) Generally In exchange for the Services, you shall pay the Company the then
applicable fees and expenses set out below. The Company reserves the right to
change the applicable charges and to institute new charges and fees at the end
of the Initial Term (as defined below) or then current renewal term, upon 30
days prior notice to you. If you believe that the Company has billed you
incorrectly, you must contact Company no later than 60 days after the closing
date on the first billing statement in which the error or problem appeared, in
order to receive an adjustment or credit. Inquiries should be directed to
contact@startengine.com. 

b) Monthly Fees and Billing 

The Company will bill you monthly for the Services. You authorize the Company to
instruct Prime Trust or any escrow agent used by Company to deduct such fees,
debts and any other amounts liabilities incurred under this Service Agreement,
prior to releasing any amounts due to you or to any other person (including
another escrow agent) from escrow. Amounts which remain unpaid for 30 days are
subject to a finance charge of 1.5% per month on any outstanding balance, or the
maximum permitted by law, which ever is lower, plus all expenses of collection
and may result in immediate termination of Service. You shall be responsible for
all taxes associated with Services other than U.S. taxes based on the Company's
net income. 

c) Transaction Fees 

Company's transaction fees depend on the method of payment (e.g. ACH - US or
WIRE - US). 

ACH transaction: $ 1 

Wire: $ 15 

d) AML Fees 

AML fees are charged per User per initial transaction. 

AML: $ 2 

AML UK: $ 5 

e) Reimbursable expenses 

You shall reimburse the Company for the following expenses: 

(i) All credit card charges charged to the Company by its third-party credit
card processor. 

(ii) All transaction fees charged to the Company or its affiliates by its
third-party transaction processor. 

(iii) Escrow agent fees charged to the Company or its affiliates by third-party
escrow agents. 

(iv) Return fees as set out in Section 4 (Returns, Reversals, Disputes and
Reserves) below. Credit cards: average is 3.5% (varies because it is a
combination of fixed and a percentage charged by the credit card vendor) 

2. Customer Representations and Warranties 

Customer represents and warrants to the Company that then executed and delivered
by Customer, this Service Agreement will constitute the legal, valid, and
binding obligation of Customer, enforceable in accordance with its terms. 

4. Returns and Reversals 

a) Returns and Reversals 

User transactions debited from bank accounts via ACH are subject to returns
(e.g., non-sufficient funds) and reversals from chargebacks (e.g., unauthorized
activity) per the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693 et seq. as may be
amended), Regulation E, and NACHA guidelines (collectively, such returns and
reversals are "Reversals"). The Company will work to protect Customer and the
receiving Users from unwarranted Reversals; however, Customer acknowledges and
agrees that: 

i) Customer is liable for all User Activity and Reversals associated with User
Activity; 

ii) If Company's agent receives a Reversal, the Company may in its sole
discretion charge Customer the full amount of the Reversal ("Reversed Payment")
plus an additional $ 7 reversal fee ("Reversal Fee" and collectively the
"Reversal Liability"); 

iii) The Company has sole discretion to determine who is at fault and liable for
the Reversed Payment and Reversal Fee; 

iv) Customer authorizes the Company to take any of the following actions (in any
particular order): (i) collect the unpaid portion of the Reversal Liability from
funds sent to your third party escrow account; (ii) debit your bank account in
the amount of the unpaid portion of the Reversal Liability; (iv) engage in
collection efforts to recover the unpaid portion of the Reversal Liability and /
or (v) take legal action or any other action under this Service Agreement. 

5. Term and Survival 

a) Subject to earlier termination as provided below, this Service Agreement is
for the total duration of the Company's Offering (the "Initial Term") unless
either party requests termination at least 30 days prior to the end of the
then-current term. 

b) Additionally, either party may terminate this Service Agreement in the event:

i) The other party's material breach that remains not cured and continues for a
period of (A) in the case of a failure involving the payment of any undisputed
amount due hereunder, 15 days and (B) in the case of any other failure, 30 days
after the non performing party receives notice from the terminating party
specifying such failure; 

ii) Any statement, representation or warranty of the other party is untrue or
misleading in any material respect or omits material information; 

iii) The other party (A) voluntarily or involuntarily is subject to bankruptcy
proceedings, (B) applies for or consents to the appointment of a receiver,
trustee, custodian, sequestrator, or similar official, (C) makes a general
assignment to creditors, (D) commences winding down or liquidation of its
business affairs, (E) otherwise takes corporate action for the purpose of
effecting any of the foregoing, or (F) ceases operating in the normal course of
business; 

iv) If any change to, enactment of, or change in interpretation or enforcement
of any law occurs that would have a material adverse effect upon a party's
ability to perform its obligations under this Service Agreement or a party's
costs/revenues with respect to the services under this Service Agreement; 

v) Upon direction to a party from any regulatory authority or National Automated
Clearing House Association to cease or materially limit the exercise or
performance of such party's rights or obligations under this Service Agreement;

vi) If there shall have occurred a material adverse change in the financial
condition of the other party; or 

vii) Upon a force majeure event that materially prevents or impedes a party from
performing its obligations hereunder for a period of more than 10 business days.

StartEngine Crowdfunding, Inc. 

By: /s/ Dawn Dickson, 

Customer: 

By:Dawn Dickson, CEO and Founder 

Date: 08/19/2019 

/s/ Howard Marks Howard Marks CEO 

Description: 

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), autoimmune hemolytic anemia, and oral ulcer.
The patient was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and was noted to
have autoimmune hemolytic anemia at the time of his CLL diagnosis. 

CHIEF COMPLAINT: 

1. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). 

2. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 

3. Oral ulcer. 

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 

The patient is a 72-year-old gentleman who was diagnosed with chronic
lymphocytic leukemia in May 2008. He was noted to have autoimmune hemolytic
anemia at the time of his CLL diagnosis. He has been on chronic steroids to
control his hemolysis and is currently on prednisone 5 mg every other day. He
comes in to clinic today for follow-up and complete blood count. At his last
office visit we discontinued this prophylactic antivirals and antibacterial. 

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 

Prilosec 20 mg b.i.d., levothyroxine 50 mcg q.d., Lopressor 75 mg q.d., vitamin
C 500 mg q.d., multivitamin q.d., simvastatin 20 mg q.d., and prednisone 5 mg
q.o.d. 

ALLERGIES: 

Vicodin. 

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: 

The patient reports ulcer on his tongue and his lip. He has been off of Valtrex
for five days. He is having some difficulty with his night vision with his left
eye. He has a known cataract. He denies any fevers, chills, or night sweats. He
continues to have headaches. The rest of his review of systems is negative. 

PHYSICAL EXAM: 

VITALS: BP: 120/74. HEART RATE: 72. TEMP: 97.8. Weight: 112.7 kg. 

GEN: He has a obvious cold sore on his bottom lip on the left. 

HEENT: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Sclerae are anicteric.
His oropharynx is notable for ulcer on his tongue. No ulcers on his buccal
mucosa. 

NECK: Supple. He has no cervical or supraclavicular adenopathy. 

LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 

CV: Regular rate; normal S1, S2, no murmurs. 

ABDOMEN: Soft. He has positive bowel sounds. No hepatosplenomegaly. 

EXT: No lower extremity edema. 

LABORATORY DATA: 

His white blood cell count is 4.6, hemoglobin 14.2, hematocrit 42, and platelets
207,000. 

ASSESSMENT/PLAN: 

This is a 72-year-old gentleman with chronic lymphocytic leukemia on chronic
steroids for autoimmune hemolytic anemia. His blood counts are relatively stable
at 5 mg of prednisone every other day. We will plan on putting him back on the
Valtrex and decreasing his steroids to 1 mg daily. I will see him back in clinic
in a week. 

Description: 

Human immunodeficiency virus disease with stable control on Atripla. Resolving
left gluteal abscess, completing Flagyl. Diabetes mellitus, currently on oral
therapy. Hypertension, depression, and chronic musculoskeletal pain of unclear
etiology. 

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 

The patient is a 41-year-old white male with a history of HIV disease. His last
CD4 count was 425, viral load was less than 50 in 08/07. He was recently
hospitalized for left gluteal abscess, for which he underwent I&D and he has
newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus. He also has a history of hypertension and
hypertriglyceridemia. He had been having increased urination and thirst. He was
seen in the hospital by the endocrinology staff and treated with insulin while
hospitalized and getting treatment for his perirectal abscess. The endocrine
team apparently felt that insulin might be best for this patient, but because of
financial issues, elected to place him on Glucophage and glyburide. The patient
reports that he has been taking the medication. He is in general feeling better.
He says that his gluteal abscess is improving and he will be following up with
Surgery today. 

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 

1. Gabapentin 600 mg at night. 

2. Metformin 1000 mg twice a day. 

3. Glipizide 5 mg a day. 

4. Flagyl 500 mg four times a day. 

5. Flexeril 10 mg twice a day. 

6. Paroxetine 20 mg a day. 

7. Atripla one at night. 

8. Clonazepam 1 mg twice a day. 

9. Blood pressure medicine, name unknown. 

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: 

He otherwise has a negative review of systems. 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: 

VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 36.6, blood pressure 145/90, pulse 123, respirations
20, and weight is 89.9 kg (198 pounds.) HEENT: Unremarkable except for some
submandibular lymph nodes. His fundi are benign. NECK: Supple. LUNGS: Clear to
auscultation and percussion. CARDIAC: Reveals regular rate and rhythm without
murmur, rub or gallop. ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender without organomegaly or mass.
EXTREMITIES: Show no cyanosis, clubbing or edema. GU: Examination of the
perineum revealed an open left gluteal wound that appears clear with no
secretions. 

IMPRESSION: 

1. Human immunodeficiency virus disease with stable control on Atripla. 

2. Resolving left gluteal abscess, completing Flagyl. 

3. Diabetes mellitus, currently on oral therapy. 

4. Hypertension. 

5. Depression. 

6. Chronic musculoskeletal pain of unclear etiology. 

PLAN: 

The patient will continue his current medications. He will have laboratory
studies done in 3 to 4 weeks, and we will see him a few weeks thereafter. He has
been encouraged to keep his appointment with his psychologist. 

Description: 

Followup 4 months status post percutaneous screw fixation of a right Schatzker
IV tibial plateau fracture and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures
treated nonoperatively. 

REASON FOR VISIT: 

Followup 4 months status post percutaneous screw fixation of a right Schatzker
IV tibial plateau fracture and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures
treated nonoperatively. 

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 

The patient is a 59-year-old gentleman who is now approximately 4 months status
post percutaneous screw fixation of Schatzker IV tibial plateau fracture and
nonoperative management of second through fifth metatarsal head fractures. He is
currently at home and has left nursing home facility. He states that his pain is
well controlled. He has been working with physical therapy two to three times a
week. He has had no drainage or fever. He has noticed some increasing
paresthesias in his bilateral feet but has a history of spinal stenosis with
lower extremity neuropathy. 

FINDINGS: 

On physical exam, his incision is near well healed. He has no effusion noted.
His range of motion is 10 to 105 degrees. He has no pain or crepitance. On
examination of his right foot, he is nontender to palpation of the metatarsal
heads. He has 4 out of 5 strength in EHL, FHL, tibialis, and gastroc-soleus
complex. He does have decreased sensation to light touch in the L4-L5
distribution of his feet bilaterally. 

X-rays taken including AP and lateral of the right knee demonstrate a healed
medial tibial plateau fracture status post percutaneous screw fixation.
Examination of three views of the right foot demonstrates the second through
fifth metatarsal head fractures. These appear to be extraarticular. They are all
in a bayonet arrangement, but there appears to be bridging callus between the
fragments on the oblique film. 

ASSESSMENT: 

Four months status post percutaneous screw fixation of the right medial tibial
plateau and second through fifth metatarsal head fractures. 

PLANS: 

I would like the patient to continue working with physical therapy. He may be
weight bearing as tolerated on his right side. I would like him to try to
continue to work to gain full extension of the right knee and increase his knee
flexion. I also would like him to work on ambulation and strengthening. 

I discussed with the patient his concerning symptoms of paresthesias. He said he
has had the left thigh for a number of years and has been followed by a
neurologist for this. He states that he has had some right-sided paresthesias
now for a number of weeks. He claims he has no other symptoms of any worsening
stenosis. I told him that I would see his neurologist for evaluation or possibly
a spinal surgeon if his symptoms progress. 

The patient should follow up in 2 months at which time he should have AP and
lateral of the right knee and three views of the right foot. 

Description: 

Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder, chronic renal insufficiency,
squamous cell carcinoma of the skin, anemia secondary to chronic renal
insufficiency and chemotherapy, and hypertension. The patient is here for
followup visit and chemotherapy. 

CHIEF COMPLAINT: 

The patient is here for followup visit and chemotherapy. 

DIAGNOSES: 

1. Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder. 

2. Chronic renal insufficiency. 

3. Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. 

4. Anemia secondary to chronic renal insufficiency and chemotherapy. 

5. Hypertension. 

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: 

A 51-year-old white male diagnosed with PTLD in latter half of 2007. He
presented with symptoms of increasing adenopathy, abdominal pain, weight loss,
and anorexia. He did not seek medical attention immediately. He was finally
hospitalized by the renal transplant service and underwent a lymph node biopsy
in the groin, which showed diagnosis of large cell lymphoma. He was discussed at
the hematopathology conference. Chemotherapy with rituximab plus
cyclophosphamide, daunorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone was started. First
cycle of chemotherapy was complicated by sepsis despite growth factor support.
He also appeared to have become disoriented either secondary to sepsis or
steroid therapy. 

The patient has received 5 cycles of chemotherapy to date. He did not keep his
appointment for a PET scan after 3 cycles because he was not feeling well. His
therapy has been interrupted for infection related to squamous cell cancer, skin
surgery as well as complaints of chest infection. 

The patient is here for the sixth and final cycle of chemotherapy. He states he
feels well. He denies any nausea, vomiting, cough, shortness of breath, chest
pain or fatigue. He denies any tingling or numbness in his fingers. Review of
systems is otherwise entirely negative. 

Performance status on the ECOG scale is 1 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: 

VITAL SIGNS: He is afebrile. Blood pressure 161/80, pulse 65, weight 71.5 kg,
which is essentially unchanged from his prior visit. There is mild pallor noted.
There is no icterus, adenopathy or petechiae noted. CHEST: Clear to
auscultation. CARDIOVASCULAR: S1 and S2 normal with regular rate and rhythm.
Systolic flow murmur is best heard in the pulmonary area. ABDOMEN: Soft and
nontender with no organomegaly. Renal transplant is noted in the right lower
quadrant with a scar present. EXTREMITIES: Reveal no edema. 

LABORATORY DATA: 

CBC from today shows white count of 9.6 with a normal differential, ANC of 7400,
hemoglobin 8.9, hematocrit 26.5 with an MCV of 109, and platelet count of
220,000. 

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: 

1. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma following transplantation. The patient is to
receive his sixth and final cycle of chemotherapy today. PET scan has been
ordered to be done within 2 weeks. He will see me back for the visit in 3 weeks
with CBC, CMP, and LDH. 

2. Chronic renal insufficiency. 

3. Anemia secondary to chronic renal failure and chemotherapy. He is to continue
on his regimen of growth factor support. 

4. Hypertension. This is elevated today because he held his meds because he is
getting rituximab other than that this is well controlled. His CMP is pending
from today. 

5. Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. The scalp is well healed. He still has
an open wound on the right posterior aspect of his trunk. This has no active
drainage, but it is yet to heal. This probably will heal by secondary intention
once chemotherapy is finished. Prescription for prednisone as part of his
chemotherapy has been given to him. 

ANNABEL LEE. 

IT was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there
lived whom you may know By the name of ANNABEL LEE; And this maiden she lived
with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me. 

I was a child and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea: But we loved with
a love that was more than love — I and my ANNABEL LEE; With a love that the
winged seraphs of heaven Coveted her and me. 

And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew
out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful ANNABEL LEE; So that her highborn kinsman
came And bore her away from me, To shut her up in a sepulchre In this kingdom by
the sea. 

The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me — Yes! — that
was the reason (as all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came
out of the cloud by night, Chilling and killing my ANNABEL LEE. 

But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than
we — Of many far wiser than we — And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the
demons down under the sea, Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the
beautiful ANNABEL LEE: 

For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful ANNABEL
LEE; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful
ANNABEL LEE; And so, all the night - tide, I lie down by the side Of my
darling—my darling—my life and my bride, In the sepulchre there by the sea, In
her tomb by the sounding sea. 

Because I could not stop for Death — He kindly stopped for me — The Carriage
held but just Ourselves — And Immortality. 

We slowly drove — He knew no haste, And I had put away My labor and my leisure
too, For His Civility — 

We passed the School, where Children strove At recess — in the ring — We passed
the Fields of Gazing Grain — We passed the Setting Sun — 

Or rather — He passed Us — The Dews drew quivering and chill — For only
Gossamer, my Gown — My Tippet — only Tulle — 

We paused before a House that seemed A Swelling of the Ground — The Roof was
scarcely visible — The Cornice — in the Ground — 

Since then — 'tis centuries — and yet Feels shorter than the Day I first
surmised the Horses' Heads Were toward Eternity — 

I HIDE myself within my flower, That wearing on your breast, You, unsuspecting,
wear me too — And angels know the rest. 

I hide myself within my flower, That, fading from your vase, You, unsuspecting,
feel for me Almost a loneliness. 

THE RAVEN. 

ONCE upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, Over many a
quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore — While I nodded, nearly napping,
suddenly there came a tapping, As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my
chamber door. "'Tis some visiter," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door —
Only this and nothing more." 

Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December, And each separate dying
ember wrought its ghost upon the floor. Eagerly I wished the morrow; — vainly I
had sought to borrow From my books surcease of sorrow — sorrow for the lost
Lenore — For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore — Nameless
here for evermore. 

And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain Thrilled me —
filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before; So that now, to still the
beating of my heart, I stood repeating "'Tis some visiter entreating entrance at
my chamber door — Some late visiter entreating entrance at my chamber door; This
it is and nothing more." 

Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer, "Sir," said I, "or
Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore; But the fact is I was napping, and so
gently you came rapping, And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber
door, That I scarce was sure I heard you" — here I opened wide the door; — —
Darkness there and nothing more. 

Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortals ever dared to dream before; But the silence
was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token, And the only word there spoken
was the whispered word, "Lenore?" This I whispered, and an echo murmured back
the word, "Lenore!" — Merely this and nothing more. 

Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning, Soon again I heard
a tapping something louder than before. "Surely," said I, "surely that is
something at my window lattice; Let me see, then, what thereat is and this
mystery explore — Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore; —
'Tis the wind and nothing more." 

Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter, In there
stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore. Not the least obeisance
made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he; But, with mien of lord or lady,
perched above my chamber door — Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my
chamber door — Perched, and sat, and nothing more. 

Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling, By the grave and stern
decorum of the countenance it wore, "Though thy crest be shorn and shaven,
thou," I said, "art sure no craven, Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering
from the Nightly shore — Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's
Plutonian shore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore." 

Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, Though its
answer little meaning — little relevancy bore; For we cannot help agreeing that
no living human being Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber
door — Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, With such
name as "Nevermore." 

But the Raven, sitting lonely on that placid bust, spoke only That one word, as
if his soul in that one word he did outpour. Nothing farther then he uttered;
not a feather then he fluttered — Till I scarcely more than muttered "Other
friends have flown before — On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have
flown before." Then the bird said "Nevermore." 

Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, "Doubtless," said I,
"what it utters is its only stock and store Caught from some unhappy master whom
unmerciful Disaster Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden
bore — Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore Of 'Never —
nevermore.'" 

But the Raven still beguiling all my sad soul into smiling, Straight I wheeled a
cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and door; Then, upon the velvet
sinking, I betook myself to linking Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous
bird of yore — What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of
yore Meant in croaking "Nevermore." 

This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing To the fowl whose
fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core; This and more I sat divining, with
my head at ease reclining On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamp - light
gloated o'er, But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp - light gloating o'er
She shall press, ah, nevermore! 

Then, me thought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer Swung by
Seraphim whose foot - falls tinkled on the tufted floor. "Wretch," I cried, "thy
God hath lent thee — by these angels he hath sent thee Respite — respite and
nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore! Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and
forget this lost Lenore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore." 

"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil! — prophet still, if bird or devil! — Whether
Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here a shore, Desolate yet all
undaunted, on this desert land enchanted — On this home by Horror haunted — tell
me truly, I implore — Is there — is there balm in Gilead? — tell me — tell me, I
implore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore." 

"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil — prophet still, if bird or devil! By that
Heaven that bends above us — by that God we both adore — Tell this soul with
sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn, It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom
the angels name Lenore — Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name
Lenore.' Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore." 

"Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting — "Get
thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore! Leave no black plume
as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! Leave my loneliness unbroken! —
quit the bust above my door! Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form
from off my door!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore." 

And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting On the pallid
bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; And his eyes have all the seeming of
a demon's that is dreaming And the lamp - light o'er him streaming throws his
shadow on the floor; And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the
floor Shall be lifted — nevermore! 

Two roads diverged in a yellow wood, And sorry I could not travel both And be
one traveler, long I stood And looked down one as far as I could To where it
bent in the undergrowth; 

Then took the other, as just as fair, And having perhaps the better claim,
Because it was grassy and wanted wear; Though as for that the passing there Had
worn them really about the same, 

And both that morning equally lay In leaves no step had trodden black. Oh, I
kept the first for another day! Yet knowing how way leads on to way, I doubted
if I should ever come back. 

I shall be telling this with a sigh Somewhere ages and ages hence: Two roads
diverged in a wood, and I — I took the one less travelled by, And that has made
all the difference. 

Proof 

The proof proceeds by the Principle of Mathematical Induction on the number of
vertices. 

For all n ∈ N>0, let P (n) be the proposition: Gn can be assigned a proper
vertex k - coloring such that k ≤ 5. 

Basis for the Induction 

P (r) is trivially true for 1 ≤ r ≤ 5, as there are no more than 5 vertices to
be colored. 

This is our basis for the induction. 

Induction Hypothesis 

Now we need to show that, if P (r) is true, where r ≥ 5, then it logically
follows that P (r + 1) is true. 

So this is our induction hypothesis: Gr can be assigned a proper vertex k -
coloring such that k ≤ 5. 

Then we need to show: Gr+1 can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such
that k ≤ 5. 

Induction Step 

This is our induction step: 

According to the Minimum Degree Bound for Simple Planar Graph, Gr+1 has at least
one vertex with at most 5 edges. Let this vertex be labeled x. Remove vertex x
from Gr+1 to create another graph, G′r. By the induction hypothesis, G′r is five
- colorable. Suppose all five colors were not connected to x. Then we can give x
the missing color and thus five - color Gr+1. 

Suppose all five colors are connected to x. Then examine the five vertices x was
adjacent to. Call them y1, y2, y3, y4 and y5 in clockwise order around x. Let
y1, y2, y3, y4 and y5 be colored respectively by colors c1, c2, c3, c4 and c5. 

Let us denote Hi,j a subgraph of G′r induced by the vertices colored with ci and
cj. Consider H1,3. Suppose there exists no path between y1 and y3 in H1,3. Thus,
H1,3 is disconnected into two components. We can, then, interchange the colors
c1 and c3 in the component that is connected to y1. Thus x is no longer adjacent
to a vertex of color c1, so x can be colored c1. 

Suppose there exists a path between y1 and y3 in H1,3. Including the vertex x in
this path we get a circuit C. Since we indexed the vertices y1, y2, y3, y4 and
y5 clockwise, exactly one of the vertices y2 and y4 is inside C. Hence, y2 and
y4 are in different connected components of H2,4 Then we can switch colors c2
and c4 in the component of H2,4 that is connected to y2. Now x is no longer
adjacent to a vertex of color c2, so we can color it c2. 

This graph illustrates the case in which the path from y1 to y3 can be
completed. Blue = c1, Yellow = c2, Red = c3, Green = c4, Turquoise = c5. The
dotted lines represent edges and vertices that might exist, as this is simply a
fairly minimal example graph that matches the conditions. 

So P (r) ⟹ P (r + 1) and the result follows by the Principle of Mathematical
Induction. 

Therefore: For all n ∈ N>0, Gn can be assigned a proper vertex k - coloring such
that k ≤ 5. 

Proof 

Let AB be a second bimedial straight line divided into its medials at C. Let AC
> CB. Let DE be a rational straight line. Let DEFG equal to AB2 be applied to DE
producing DG as its breadth. It is to be demonstrated that DG is a third
binomial straight line. 

From Proposition 4 of Book II: Square of Sum: AB2 = AC2 + CB2 + 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB Let
the rectangle DH be applied to DE such that DH = AC2. Let the rectangle KL be
applied to DE such that KL = BC2. Then the rectangle MF is equal to 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB.
Let MG be bisected at N. Let NO be drawn parallel to ML (or GF, which is the
same thing). Therefore each of the rectangles MO and NF equals AC ⋅ CB. 

We have that AB is a second bimedial which has been divided into its medials at
C. Therefore, by definition, AC and CB are medial straight lines which are
commensurable in square only such that AC ⋅ CB is a medial rectangle. Thus, by
definition, AC2 and CB2 are also medial. From: Proposition 15 of Book X:
Commensurability of Sum of Commensurable Magnitudes and: Porism to Proposition
23 of Book X: Straight Line Commensurable with Medial Straight Line is Medial it
follows that: DL is medial. We have that DL has been applied to the rational
straight line DE. Therefore from Proposition 22 of Book X: Square on Medial
Straight Line: MD is rational and incommensurable in length with DE. For the
same reason: MG is also rational straight line and incommensurable in length
with ML, which equals DE. Therefore each of DM and MG is rational straight line
and incommensurable in length with DE. 

We have that AC is incommensurable in length with CB. Also: AC: CB = AC2: AC ⋅
CB Therefore by Proposition 11 of Book X: Commensurability of Elements of
Proportional Magnitudes: AC2 is incommensurable with AC ⋅ CB. Hence by:
Proposition 12 of Book X: Commensurability is Transitive Relation and:
Proposition 13 of Book X: Commensurable Magnitudes are Incommensurable with Same
Magnitude it follows that: AC2 + CB2 is incommensurable with 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB. That
is: DL is incommensurable with MF. So from: Proposition 1 of Book VI: Areas of
Triangles and Parallelograms Proportional to Base and: Proposition 11 of Book X:
Commensurability of Elements of Proportional Magnitudes it follows that: DM is
incommensurable in length with MG. But DM and MG are rational straight lines
which are incommensurable in length with each other. Therefore by definition DG
is binomial. 

It remains to be proved that DG is a third binomial straight line. From Lemma to
Proposition 60 of Book X: Square on Binomial Straight Line applied to Rational
Straight Line: AC2 + CB2 > 2 ⋅ AC ⋅ CB Therefore DL > MF. From Proposition 1 of
Book VI: Areas of Triangles and Parallelograms Proportional to Base: DM > MG
Since: AC2 is commensurable with CB2 it follows that: DH is commensurable with
KL. So from: Proposition 1 of Book VI: Areas of Triangles and Parallelograms
Proportional to Base and: Proposition 11 of Book X: Commensurability of Elements
of Proportional Magnitudes it follows that: DK is commensurable in length with
KM. Also DK ⋅ KM = MN2. Thus from Lemma to Proposition 17 of Book X: Condition
for Commensurability of Roots of Quadratic Equation: DM2 is greater than MG2 by
the square on a straight line commensurable in length with DM. Also: Neither DM
nor MG is commensurable in length with DE. Therefore DG is a third binomial
straight line. ■ 

Proof 

If the sets S and T considered are empty or singletons, the theorem holds
vacuously or trivially. Thus assume S and T each contain at least two elements.

Let U = (S, ⪯S) ∪ (T, ⪯T) Define the following relation ⪯ on U: ∀ x, y ∈ U: x⪯y
if and only if: x, y ∈ S: x ⪯ S y or: x, y ∈ T: x⪯T y or: x ∈ S, y ∈ T 

We claim that ⪯ is a well-ordering. First, we show it is a total ordering.
Checking in turn each of the criteria for a total ordering: 

Reflexivity 

If x = y, they're necessarily both in S or T simultaneously. Reflexivity then
follows from ⪯S and x ⪯ T being reflexive, as they are both orderings. 

Transitivity 

Let x, y, z ∈ U. If x, y, z ∈ S or x, y, z ∈ T simultaneously, then ⪯ is
transitive by the transitivity of ⪯ S and ⪯ T. Suppose x, y ∈ S and z ∈ T. Let x
⪯ y and y ⪯ z. Then x ⪯ z because x ∈ S and y ∈ T. Suppose x ∈ S and y, z ∈ T.
Then x ⪯ z also because x ∈ S and y ∈ T. Thus ⪯ is transitive. 

Antisymmetry 

Let x ⪯ y and y ⪯ x. If x, y ∈ S then x = y by the antisymmetry of ⪯S. Likewise
if x, y ∈ T. If x ∈ S and y ∈ T, then y ∈ S and x ∈ T as well. Thus x = y from
the antisymmetry of ⪯S or ⪯T. Conclude that ⪯ is a total ordering. To show ⪯ is
a well-ordering, consider a non-empty set X ⊆ U. 

Then either: X ∩ S = ∅ or: X ∩ T = ∅ or: X ∩ S is non-empty and X ∩ T is
non-empty. 

In the first case, X ⊆ T, by Intersection with Complement is Empty iff Subset.
Then X has a smallest element defined by ⪯T. In the second case, X ⊆ S, also by
Intersection with Complement is Empty iff Subset. Then X has a smallest element
defined by ⪯ S. In the third case, the smallest element of X ∖ T is an element
of S. Thus it precedes any element of T by the definition of ⪯. The smallest
element of X ∖ T, which is a subset of S, is guaranteed to exist by the
well-ordering on S. This smallest element is then also the smallest element of
(X ∖ T) ∪ T = X. Thus ⪯ is a well-ordering on S ∪ T. □ 

Consider the mapping: k: (T, ⪯T) → (U, ⪯): k (α) = α Then k is strictly
increasing, by the construction of ⪯. Thus there is a strictly increasing
mapping from T to U. From Strictly Increasing Mapping Between Wosets Implies
Order Isomorphism, T is order isomorphic to U or an initial segment of U. 

Let Ix denote the initial segment in U determined by x, according to k. Note
that Ix = Ik (x), because k (x) = x. 

Suppose x ∈ S. Then Ix ⊆ S because ⪯ is a well-ordering. Thus there is an order
isomorphism from T to Ix in S. Suppose x = min T, the smallest element of T.
Then every element of S strictly precedes x, as x is in T. Also, x precedes
every element of T, so Ix ≠ T. Thus there is an order isomorphism from T to all
of S. Suppose x ∈ T and x ≠ min T. Then Ix defines an initial segment in T.
Also, every element of S strictly precedes x, as x is in T. Thus there is an
order isomorphism from an initial segment of T to all of S. The cases are
distinct by Well-Ordered Class is not Isomorphic to Initial Segment. ■ 

CSCI-4470-01 

Open Source Software Spring Semester 2022 

Open Source has been taught at RPI since Fall of 2007 (taught jointly by Dr.
William Shroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez) as a 4000 level class, and then by Mukkai
Krishnamoorthy as a 2000 level class. We will continue this tradition by
offering it as a 4000 level course. 

In the spirit of Open Source, all of the course notes are available online in
Github: https://github.com/rcos/CSCI-4470-OpenSource 

Licensing And Credit 

Licensed under: CC - BY - SA 4.0 https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

Our Lecture Slides have greatly benefited from the previous classes taught by
Dr. William Schroeder and Dr. Luis Ibanez at RPI, 

And by Professor Mukkai Krishnamoorthy who succeeded them in teaching the course

We are extremely thankful to RedHat for their generous support. Thanks to Mr.
Tom Callaway and Ms. Gina Likins for their valuable advice and suggestions. 

People 

Professor 

Wesley Turner 

Amos Eaton 207 

wdturner@gmail.com 

https://rensselaer.webex.com/meet/turnew2 

Office Hours (subject to change): Tuesday 3:35-5:05pm (in person), Thursday
10:00-11:30am in my WebEx (above), or by appointment 

TAs 

Mohammed Shahid Modi 

Email: modim2@rpi.eduu 

WebEx: https://rensselaer.webex.com/meet/modim2 

Office Hours: TBD 

Kelsey Rook 

Email: rookk@rpi.eduu 

WebEx: https://rensselaer.webex.com/meet/rookk 

Office Hours: TBD 

Mentors 

Kate Vandermolen 

Email: vandek5@rpi.edu 

WebEx: https://rensselaer.webex.com/meet/vandek5 

Office Hours: TBD 

Ariana Lissak 

Email: Lissaa@rpi.edu 

WebEx: https://rensselaer.webex.com/meet/lissaa 

Office Hours: TBD 

The course will meet in Sage 5510 on Tuesdays and Fridays from 10:30 pm - 12:35
pm. Class discussions are an important part of the lecture and the labs so
attendance is required. If you are temporarily unable to attend because of
quarantine or other health issues, please contact Prof. Turner and make
alternate arrangements. 

Online LMS and the use of Submitty 

This course will not use the RPI Blackboard LMS. Instead, we will use Submitty a
course management tool developed as an opensource project under RCOS and the
creative and technical auspices of Prof. Barbara Cutler. If you are registered
in the course, you may access it at
https://submitty.cs.rpi.edu/courses/u22/csci4470. If you do not have access,
please email the TA or the Professor. 

Goal of this Class: 

Familiarize students with open source software development 

Have them be familiar with and eager to learn new technology stacks 

Able to Read and Understand Good Code. 

Patch an existing open source project. 

Work on a team collaborative project. 

Become aware of and conversant in team project and diversity issues. 

Prepare a new RCOS project for the following semester. 

Learning Outcomes: 

The goal of this course is to provide a strong foundation in open source
software development in preparation for jobs in industry or for more advanced
courses. After completing this course, the student will be able to: 

Articulate the importance of open-source tools in the technology sphere along
with the importance of community in generating understanding of Open Source
Software Tools and Community 

Effectively use and communicate the different varieties of Open Source
Licensing. 

Effectively establish and use Testing and Version Control in an open source
project. 

Demonstrate competence with Common Open Source Software Stacks and common tools.

Syllabus: 

1. Foundations 

History of Open Source 

Licensing 

2. Software Management Tools 

Version Control 

Documentation Tools 

System Build 

Specification and Testing 

Collaborative Development 

3. Software Development Tools and Paradigms 

Scientific Computing 

Statistical Computing 

Databases 

4. Software Applications 

Web Development 

Cloud Computing Platform 

Mobile Applications 

5. Topics of interest (Open Hardware, Tensor Flow, etc.) 

6. Projects 

Grading Criteria: 

2 Quizzes (10 points each) - 20% 

Open Source Project Analysis Paper - 10% 

9 Labs (3.75 points each/drop lowest) - 30% 

Project - 40% 

Test Dates 

Quiz 1 1st July 

Quiz 2 9th August 

Open Source Paper Due 

24th June 

Grade Distribution 

93 and above A 

90 and above A- 

87 and above B+ 

83 and above B 

80 and above B- 

77 and above C+ 

73 and above C 

70 and above C- 

67 and above D+ 

60 and above D 

Community: 

Please join our discord server OSS - Summer 2022 at
https://discord.gg/5WEv84aGDz. 

Policies 

These will be designated by the instructor in advance to the student and will
deal with the following issues. 

Lateness 

Late submissions receive a penalty of 10% with an additional 10% penalty (20%
total) for up to a week late. Assignments are not generally accepted more than
one week late. 

Class participation 

Regular attendance and participation is expected. 

Attendance 

Regular attendance and participation is expected. 

Missed exams or assignments: 

A formal excused absence is required to make up a missed assignment or to turn
in an assignment after the due date. 

Integrity 

Student-teacher relationships are built on trust. For example, students must
trust that teachers have made appropriate decisions about the structure and
content of the courses they teach, and teachers must trust that the assignments
that students turn in are their own. Acts that violate this trust undermine the
educational process. 

In this course, collaboration in your project group (3 or 4 students) is
allowed, but should not be abused. Do not copy blindly. Labs and Quizzes should
be solved and written by individuals alone. If anyone is caught cheating, severe
measures will be taken such as lowering the final grade, and the event will be
reported to the appropriate authorities in the campus. 

The Rensselaer Handbook of Student Rights and Responsibilities and the Graduate
Student Supplement (For 6000 level and above courses) define various forms of
Academic Dishonesty and you should make yourself familiar with these. All
assignments that are turned in for a grade must represent the student’s own
work. In cases where help was received, or teamwork was allowed, a notation on
the assignment should indicate your collaboration. Submission of any assignment
that is in violation of this policy will result in (1) an academic (grade)
penalty and (2) reporting to the Dean of Academic Affairs and either the Dean of
Students (for Undergraduates) or the Dean of Graduate Education (for Graduate
students). 

In this course, the academic penalty for a first offense is loss of a letter
grade. A second offense will result in failure of the course. If you have any
questions concerning this policy before submitting an assignment, please ask for
clarification. 

Welcome to the Techtonica curriculum! 

Techtonica is a non-profit project of SocialGood that does free tech training
and job placement for unemployed or underemployed folks. For more information,
please see our website: Techtonica.org 

Program participants will learn to do full-stack web development using
JavaScript. What bootcamps and Techtonica have in common is the fact that they
are intensive training. However, bootcamps can be pretty passive classroom
learning and they cost $15,000+ for the students. 

Techtonica aims to be more like the workplace to make the transition into the
industry better—instead of having an instructor constantly guiding you (which
you won’t have in any software engineering job), you are given a general
schedule of topics and assignments (see our curriculum repo for an idea of the
resources provided) and you’re expected to figure out what to do on your own or
in collaboration with volunteers, mentors, tech groups, and other participants.
We’re making Techtonica’s program as hands-on and project-based as possible to
best prepare you for work in tech. 

Jump to Curriculum Table of Contents. 

Table of Contents 

The following is the approximate sequence of the topics during the program but
is always being tuned and optimized so if you have questions, please open an
issue. 

Week 0 - Pre - Work 

Week 1 - Onboarding & Developer Tools 

Week 2 - Webpages: HTML & CSS 

Week 3 - JavaScript Fundamentals 

Week 4 - Intermediate JavaScript and React 

Week 5 - Web APIs 

Week 6 - Databases 

Week 7 - Advanced JS and React 

Week 8 - Testing 

Week 9 - Eventonica Project 

Week 10 - More PERN & Review 

Week 11 - Data Structures & Algorithms Data Structures Algorithms 

Week 12 - Final Assessments 

Week 13 - Career Week! 

Week 14 - Project Prep Week & Electives 

Weeks 15+ - Final Project 

Week 0 - Pre - Work Before beginning the program, participants meet weekly for 4
weeks to learn JavaScript fundamentals. Participants should memorize common
JavaScript built-in functions within the first month. 

Week 1 - Onboarding & Developer Tools 

1. Welcome, Tips, and Rules 

2. Expectations While at Techtonica 

3. How to Learn 

4. Professionalism 

5. Roles in Tech 

6. Intro to Command Line Interface Tools 

7. Advanced Command Line 

8. Bash Profile 

9. Vim 

10. Home brew 

11. How to Pair Program 

12. Project 0 - Week 1 Review 

13. Operating Systems 

14. Keyboard Shortcuts 

15. Ergonomics 

16. Growth Mindset 

17. Asking Good Questions 

18. Networking (Career) 

19. Chrome Developer Tools: Setup 

20. One of either: Living in Open Workspaces or Working Remotely depending on
program status. 

21. HTML 

22. Intro to CSS 

23. JS HTML DOM Methods 

24. Debugging 

25. Recipe Page Project: HTML 

Week 2 - Webpages: HTML & CSS 

1. Git Version Control 

2. .gitignore 

3. Using GitHub for Code Storage 

4. GitHub Collaboration 

5. Operating Systems 

6. Local Development with VS Code 

7. Article: What Exactly is the DOM? 

8. How the Internet Works (The Other Kind of Networking) 

9. Intro to DNS 

10. Recipe Page Project: CSS 

11. Media Queries 

12. UI/UX 

13. Bootstrap 

14. Building Confidence 

15. Recipe Page Project: Bootstrap 

16. Solving Code Challenges 

17. Git Part 2: Study Guide 

18. Portfolio Project: HTML, CSS & Bootstrap 

19. Using GitHub for Project Collaboration 

20. Portfolio Project: Personal Branding 

21. Reading/Writing Documentation 

22. Writing Readable Code 

23. Deploy your Portfolio Project: Deploying Client - Side Apps with Netlify 

24. Portfolio Project: Collaboration and Review 

Week 3 - JavaScript Fundamentals 

1. JavaScript 1 - Variables, Strings, Numbers 

2. JavaScript 2 - Arrays, Functions 

3. JavaScript 3 - Conditionals, Comparisons, Booleans 

4. JavaScript 4 - Loops 

5. JavaScript 5 - Switch Statements 

6. JavaScript 6 - Object Literals 

7. Datetime 

8. Basic JavaScript Practice 

9. Testing & TDD 

10. Assigned Reading - Eloquent JavaScript 

Week 4 - Intermediate JavaScript and React 

1. JavaScript DOM Manipulation - formerly jQuery 

2. HTML/JS Game Project 

3. a11y: Accessibility 

4. SEO 

5. Portfolio Project: Incorporate SEO & a11y 

6. JavaScript 7 - Object-Oriented Programming 

7. Mini Project: Object Oriented Programming in JS 

8. Functional Programming 

9. All React Lessons 

Week 5 - Web APIs 

1. Node 

2. JavaScript 8 - Regular Expressions/RegEx 

3. Runtime Complexity 

4. Intro to HTTP 

5. APIs & JSON 

6. HTTP Requests Practice 

7. Express 

8. REST APIs 

Week 6 - Databases 

1. JavaScript 9 - Async, Callbacks, Promises 

2. Intro to JSON (DigitalOcean) 

3. AJAX 

4. .env & config files 

5. TwilioQuest Exercise 

6. import & require 

7. Install Postgres 

8. Intro to Databases 

9. Data Modeling 1 (Single tables) 

10. SQL 1 (Single tables) 

11. Data Modeling 2 (Multiple tables) 

12. SQL 2 (Multiple tables) 

13. Intro to Docker 

14. Install and Run PostgreSQL using Docker 

Week 7 - Advanced JS and React 

1. Full - Stack Web App Using React and Express 

2. Recursion 

3. JavaScript Set object 

Week 8 - Testing 

1. Adding Tests to your NodeJS project 

2. Testing with Jest 

3. Rithm School - Testing with Jest 

4. API testing with Jest 

5. Testing React Components with Jest and React Testing Library 

Week 9 - Eventonica 

1. Eventonica Project 

Week 10 - Full Stack Practice 

1. Deploying to Heroku with React and Node 

2. Optimizing your React/NodeJS Project 

3. Enzyme Testing 

Week 11 - Data Structures & Algorithms 

Data Structures 

1. Intro to Data Structures 

2. Sprint Plan for Data Structures & Algorithms Week 

3. Data Structures: Stacks 

4. Data Structures: Queues 

5. Data Structures: Linked Lists 

6. Data Structures: Hash Tables 

7. JavaScript Map 

8. Data Structures: Trees 

Algorithms 

1. Intro to Algorithms 

2. Algorithms: Searching 

3. Algorithms: Sorting 

Week 12 - Final Assessments 

1. Navigating New Codebases 

2. Open-source Projects 

Week 13 - Career Week! 

1. Technical Interviewing 

2. Take-home Problems 

3. Non-Tech Interviews 

4. Article by Techtonica Alum: Working in the field as a New Software Engineer
out of Bootcamp 

5. Career Week: Machine Learning Engineer 

6. Career Week: Entrepreneurship 

7. Career Week: Data Science 

8. Career Week: Security 

9. Career Week: QA Engineer 

10. Career Week: Developer Advocate 

11. Career Week: Sales Engineering 

12. Career Week: Technical Program Manager 

Week 14 - Project Prep Week & Electives 

1. Intro to Security in Web Development 

2. Refactoring 

3. Interviewing 

4. Resume Writing 

5. Front End Take - home Challenge 

6. Back End Take - home Challenge 

7. Technical Writing 

8. Final Project: Selecting Your Final Project 

9. Final Project: 5 weeks 

10. Resources: Underrepresented in Tech 

11. Difficult Workplace Situations 

12. Financial Literacy 

13. Negotiating 

14. Ethics in Software Engineering 

Weeks 15+ Final Project 

After Week 14, Participants build a full-stack web application in the course of
one month, from inception to production. This includes: 

Creating project planning docs with wire frames 

Planning out must-have features for their MVP 

Updating status on their Trello board to meet weekly milestones/sprints 

Gathering user feedback and adapting their remaining MVP plan 

Deploying their application to Heroku 

Recording a compelling demo for the finished product 

For more details, see Final Project. 

Jerry 6/25/90 

Well I finally heard from Paula and what I heard from her I'm not to pleased
with. I heard her side of things wich are real different from what you had to
say. I'm only going to say this one time so you better make sure you understand.
If you ever touch my daughter again, I'll have you permanently removed from the
face of this Earth. You better thank your lucky stars you Ashley's father or
youd already have your fucking legs broke. 

I found out what happend to most of the money from the van, and I also found out
you got 1500 for the truck not 1300 like you said. I'm still going to find out
how much you got for the Buick and if it's 1 ¢ over 1000 you can kiss your ass
goodbye. PI also found out it was running like a top and the burnt valves was a
bunch of bull shit, just like I thought in the first place. You sounded a little
shaky over the phone and gave yourself away. I told you a long time ago don't
play fucking games with me. You're playing with the wrong person asshole. I've
made a couple of phone calls to San Pedro to some friends of mine and the not to
happy with your fucking game playing with other people's money and especially
you hitting Paula. What I want done and it better be done. Everything that's
mine or hers tools, clothes, books, gun, TV, VCR, I don't fucking care if it's a
bobby pin, you better give it to Paula. I want all my shit given to her and I
mean every fucking thing. You have a week to do it or I make another phone call.
I hope you get the fucking message. Your game playing is eventually going to get
you in more than a poo butt game player can handle. 

1 week asshole. 

And keep playing your game with Paula and see what happens. 

Dr. Means, 

It has come to our attention that you are planning to do abortions at your Harry
St. location. I am stunned that you would take your career in this direction.
Fewer people than ever before are pro-abortion, quality physicians wouldn't even
consider associating themselves with it, and more Americans than ever before are
unwilling to turn a blind eye to the killing of a baby when the ratio for
adoption is 36 couples to 1 baby. 

Maybe you don't realize the consequences of killing the innocent. If Tiller
could speak from hell, he would tell you what a soulless existence you are
purposefully considering, all in the name of greed. Thousands of people are
already looking into your background, not just in Wichita, but from all over the
U.S. They will know your habits and routines. They know where you shop, who your
friends are, what you drive, where you live. You will be checking under your car
every day — because maybe today is the day someone places an explosive under it.
People will be picketing your home, your office. You will come under greater
scrutiny than you've ever known, legally and professionally. Much worse than the
disciplinary actions and ethical concerns that you've been facing. You will
become a pariah — no physician will want to associate with you. You will be seen
like all the other hacks that have stooped to doing abortions when they weren't
good enough to maintain a real practice. You will lose your legitimate
clientele, as no one bringing a baby into this world wants to be in the same
facility where you are also killing them. You will have trouble keeping staff
who are willing to participate in innocent blood - shedding and won't be able to
keep the sanitary conditions necessary to maintain a healthy medical facility.
You will end up having the same kind of rat - infested, dirty facility that they
have in north - eastern Kansas. Anyone who partners with you will experience the
same headaches. Not to mention the fact that you will be haunted by bloody,
squirming, dismembered babies in your sleep. You can't do what is morally
reprehensible and enjoy peace of mind. The Bible says, "There are six things the
Lord hates ... hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises evil
schemes, feet that are quick to rush into evil "Proverbs 6: 16 - 18. Abortion
kills human life - it matters not if you kill it at 6 weeks or at 26 weeks, it's
still the unnatural, violent death of a human baby for the sake of convenience.
You are doing what the Humane Society wouldn't allow to happen to a pregnant dog
or cat. 

I urge you to think very carefully about the choices you are making. There are 3
churches within 1 block of your practice, and many others who must take a stand.
We will not let this abomination continue without doing everything we can to
stop it. We pray you will either make the right choice and use your medical
practice to heal instead of kill, or that God will bring judgment on you, the
likes of which you can not imagine. We don't want you killing our children in
our community. Good people are tired of this rampant evil, and will stand
against you every step of the way. Do the world a favor and ABORT this stupid
plan of yours. It's not too late to change your mind. 

Angel Dillard 

Hello, 

Do you remember... when you did the insurance scam? It was your house and your
police report and you cashed the check. That is an E Felony. That is 3 to 5
years. I will tell a fucking detective. There are a bunch of them right around
the corner from my motherfucking cell. I will tell them about all the shit you
turn in stolen from your house. It was not my house. If you think you can get
away with it, you are so fucking dumb. They will cuff you in the middle of your
shift at Wal-Greens. You will not like it in here. So do yourself a favor drop
the charges on me or else I will tell them all about your scam. They love to
here about stuff like that. You did it all by yourself. Not me. It was all in
your name. The police report you signed. You signed the check. So I will go away
just do the thing you need to do or show this letter to the judge so they can
arrest you. I will testified. You think you are too good to do time. They don't
give a fucking shit about you. I'm not playing anymore. Call the lawyer I had
the first time... or you will lose your fucking job and freedom. So you will be
better off or I will do what ever it takes to have you in jail like me. You
can't take a charge. You can't make it in here. I will be more than happy to
tell on your dumb ass. I am pissed off like you will never believe so if you
don't want to go to jail get me the fuck out of here or maybe your fucking Mom
can help. Ha Ha. I know you took my money I had saved too Go see the Bitch. I
can't tell you how bad it will be for you not to believe me. Mr. Patrick is in
the cell here and a lawyer is on the top bunk or bed. You might think you might
get out of it, but do you really want to try. Just drop the charges and I will
go away from you and your little friend. 

I am not fucking playing Bitch. Jail is no fucking fun for a girl so don't try
me. 

Don't take your time. I am pissed. 

I do not know what this Court deem it is but unless this Case reverse it self as
is justl due than a White Folks favor to my person upon my prison soon release
two White American richly having jews money of 20 thousand dollars will become
taken from them for you Jewish Judges action of unfairness in this Court My
criminal rap sheet is no joke I'm know in prison for a store holdup on blacks or
a black and if you White American Jewish Judges wanna act racially motivated
with justice in a double sided way dropping the "I"; "C" and "E" of the Word
Justice apparently raising the word "Just" well then so become it Ii'll play
likewise with you judges from a Koranic and Torooh perspective thats an eye for
an eye and life for a life which means if just treatment is not actioned in this
case if I can arranged sooner than upon soon prison discharge two - American
Jewish rich person will become armed robbed of 20 thousand cash dollars in
replace for my case. Right Courts rob me I rob Court citizen sounds reasonable
to me and just as wrong as Court in handling this case at issue wrongly. 

If my case had no merit I 'ed have know objection to its dismissal treatment. 

My case has merit so unless a just treatment is done by this Court with it in
the name of principal of the case at issue two White American Jewish folks will
become dealt with now take me lightly if the Court will an see won't justice
become done even if you Judges never here of it. And in the next two weeks my
person is gonna submit 5 lawsuits in the Northern District Court although
legitimate I really do not have 'ta do so but I will. 

Call the Prison, F.B.I. Inspector General; Governor; Police Whoever my will
shall become done whether this Court believe it or not thats up to Judges. 

Pharoah and his clique Were intoxicated with pride of race and pride of material
civilization and grievously oppressed the israelities What Pharoah Wished Was To
Crush Them Is That What You Folks Trying to Do Me As And My Cases Be ware Of All
Actions South Africanner Europeans 

I understand you think you're very tough and you think that by dragging this
process out you have created me a lot of misery; that is an incorrect
assessment, but I must admit I have run out of patience with you and your smug
attitude. I hope the fact that I've obviously paid someone to find you conveys
the seriousness with which I take your current attitude. 

If you resolve this issue quickly and efficiently I can guarantee you will not
hear from me again; if you don't, well, you will be well known to the Citibank
customers you are currently in litigation with in a very short amount of time. 

Again, make my life easy, fax over the letter, and you will not be hearing from
me again. 

PS: I took the liberty of buying the corporate phone directory and locating
information on your outstanding disputed credit accounts from an internet dealer
today, and can probably make you better known to your customers than the
security measures you enact at your company indicate you would like. Consider
this, as I'm sure, being in the collections business and having the attitude
about it that you do, that you often make people upset. Lord knows that drawing
too much publicity and making people upset is what did in Joan Lefkow. 
