And there are a big amusement park I have a little audio set . Do you have a
cheaper one ? My name is Charlie . so we decided that we should not stay there
any more . I like to play soccer with children . And we 're living in Okinawa .
I cooked very delicious cook . All right . And I like him . So busy . Yeah , ,
no , no , no , this shoes was insured by the company , but I believed that but
this is not good . So I said it was n't yuck at that time . I 'm so sorry . And
some his friends and I made a present for him , expensive pen . She nawatobi I
explained about the total stories ? I want to buy is very sharp style and blue
colors , and it cost me about two thousand yen . They only sat down but when I
went then teach and doing some activities , they are changing . of course , the
scenery and the atmosphere is different . last week , I went for shopping at the
department store in Saitama . And then , piano turned just my hobby . The same .
But fortunately , his briefcase , yeah , stays just as it is . I think so . I
think Hokkaido is a kind of suburb . I 'm taking test in five minutes so I ca
n't go . on weekend , I have a rich spare time . She 's not teaching mathematics
interesting . And man wear a yellow jacket and blue tie , and a woman wear pink
dress . Thank you very much . I do n't like to drive in the city . Yes , I have
my own room . But recently , I started snowboard . I do n't know . but you know
, Thank you for your help . I live in Gifu . And before another train could come
, the station master went down to the tracks and got the bag for him . what time
will you come at the Osaka station ? Which one to take ? I live there for two
years without a car . All right ? So I thought that some of the American men are
like Japanese men , I think . So I wanted to see that things . I like music very
much . Could you talk to him and give me a call ? So one day last week , my
boyfriend was driving a car to go to his office . After that , I do my normal
work at my desk . Yes , I do . And we just relax and had a cup of coffee . And
it makes me feel so good . The door is opening . I see . Thank you very much .
Just in the building so - called Shibuya Higashiguchi Building . because sorry .
... would you just tell me why our hotel rooms were not ready at that time ? One
boy you 're welcome Yes , all right . After all , her own gift was much bigger
than her husband 's gift . But I do n't like them and when I 'm eating them ,
that means I 'm killing more animals , you know , to provide because they
provide . And I can look another two tables . Yeah , because , only one my
friend . because my commute pass expired yesterday . And the relationship
between teacher and students , I 'd say in a way , has been destroyed .
Personally I 'll make a phone call to everybody and apologize . Favorite
professessor ? But , you know , I expected a lot about , you know , eating sushi
but I could n't . So it 's looks like a just a seasonal sale . But we are
friendly But I really did n't know that . I like roses and some herbs . So , I
started with playing golf . So I have to go home right now . so I decided to
take some food to the party it 's a very interesting experience for me .
recently , I go to driving school . And when I snowboard , I can try to jump ,
and like go really fast . and and she said " Bye . " My father is work . But the
beginning of this year , I went to the United States to study English for short
for about a month . Yeah , for lunch . And also , I have to clean the room . And
her name is Shinjuku . one day last week , I went to the station as normal to go
to my work . He 's a fifth grader in primary school . Let 's see . and I dropped
my bag on the rail . But you know , it 's little bit boring . I work in honsha .
And the design was a little bit too hot . Basically , I 'm not good at cooking ,
so potluck party is fine to me . I usually surf internet . Maybe eleven . And
there 's a box and , some sound is coming from box . Yeah , she has her own room
. So I asked him to just go down and pick up my bag . So that atmosphere makes
people very comfortable . so please give me up . My name is Charlie . And so
where can I get the ticket ? Some of the concert halls do weld a led inside
their wall which does not allow any reception of cellphones so might be a good
idea if you seriously want to stop the passenger using cellphones . And I had to
take care of her . the movie was very boring for me . I like bread and some meat
foods . And she 's really nice to me and like nice to all the people around her
. all jazz . So , I like . but someone says actually I do n't know so much about
the accident so much , but someone said so . I will take the ticket or something
that it says it was late for these accidents , so he was new to our house at
that time I 'll take this . usually , I use for business . But yeah . this movie
is very interesting . for example , the man close to the window is chewing gum ,
and he looks out of the class , and behind him , there are two girls , who are
chatting with each other , and in the center of this class , there is one guy
who is drinking and who is listening to the C D. And the police came . And maybe
German people like to enjoy Japanese food . " . he explain her about lion .
color is dark . For fun ? And I do n't know if they 're grown - ups or not , but
a boy is just listening to the music by headphone and drinking something . I 'm
also free at that time . Then the train came and ran over my luggage . it 's
sunny day . However , he was n't concentrating on driving . if I am the victim ,
how I am going to pay , I 'm going to use my money We do n't have to study so
much . My hobby is to watch movies . she asked him to bring the cat to the
hospital . and we came back last Thursday . You know , this company sells many
shampoo and conditioner and ... products , So for their marketing development ,
I contribute to the market research . yeah , she likes flowers . before that , I
was a little bit like childish , but he taught me lots of things . Actually , I
've tried very hard to catch that train but in the morning , my baby just cried
out . I ca n't leave him alone at home . but I do n't think I 'll be able to
make it within the hour . And you need more balance to do skiing much more than
tennis , I think . So it 's interesting . But boy do n't like of the animal due
to the and very big and very comfort is not good for study . And she was looking
for her husband 's birthday present . All right . the father pay for the lunch .
because there is the car in my house . Hokkaido city , for six years . That 's
all . Korea is very cold in the March . Most of the people are related to my son
's friends . Thank you very much . And the driver was making a phone call with
his mobile phone . I can wait yes , OK . old architect . ? Thank you very much .
I have two children . So , you can even ski at night . No rules . And I do n't
think I can go to the party this time . Sometimes they do n't come to us .
however was empty . and I got off at a Saitama Station This is a town . The girl
talking each other . And I started watching it together . I do n't have pasokon
. The movie ? " I went to Fuji jukai . And the movie starts from one P M to
three P M. And three people , two boys and girls buy three coke and , maybe ,
two popcorns . It 's very huge and it looks like a remains of old temples . I 'm
sorry . they stopped to talk front of lion . And I could n't drive in so my mom
drove me to his house . But in Harvard University , you can see many , many
kinds of people . So it was good time , What are you doing now ? I was born in
January . And I do n't have lunch yet . And also , when I talked to my friends ,
they would say , " Oh " . I like curry , Hamburg , and ramen . And , suddenly ,
the clouds were changing to the black , and it happen to rain . " Thank you very
much . " . I 'm from Ishikawa . They sleep . But in a department store , we can
see and buy almost everything . she really likes to work house work . Many
people are relaxed and the kids are playing the volleyball on the garden . But
now I 'm not sure what kind of job she has . So it 's poor . But in Japan , they
try to attend you and try to help you out when you do n't need any help . I 'm
sorry that I could n't attend the party last night , actually . I think it 's a
little exaggeration in the situation in the United States . So when she went out
from the department store , Seattle is State ? after the marriage , we have n't
gone yet . my hobby is watching movies and walking around . I like curry rice .
I like powder snow . Thank you . Lots of family restaurants . Yeah , I am a
graduate school student , so , I do n't have to take a lot of lesson . it looked
really fun . Yes , yes . And ended up in the hotel drinking coffee and looking
at the mountains from there . how much is this necklace ? She likes use computer
. Two girls are planning to have a camp . , I tell them it 's a potluck party .
That 's the only line . because I do n't clean so . It 's very nice . she 's
very glad to get ice cream . Or the bright color , So I think I buy a nice cake
at Osaka . So it 's very natural thing . It 's not great like Japan , or it 's a
small city . at the morning one day last week , my girlfriend phoned me . very
big restaurant . And it was really exciting , you know , as a child . OK , thank
you . But not my boy . Thank you . I 'm gon na wait for him and then go home
with him . I mean a mental kind of handicap , not physical only , I mean mental
handicapped children can enjoy those sound , color . , I have never took part in
, ... And I know like it 's not possible , but like I ca n't wear this . yes , I
did . because I want to eat . He was driving his car to work . There is a house
, and there is some women and some children . My name is Charlie . 
