It was telephone conference , and it was only me and , you know , the guy . no ,
no , I am lucky to that because my father gets sick and in hospital now , so she
had to quit . I want to meet on one or two o'clock in afternoon . So she just
kept asking , " Please , please , please can I have her ? So , recently , Gusto
or Jonathan 's , such a restaurant have free drink corner . are you â€” now ?
there are one cat on the car . " Good Will Hunting " . And there are various
clothes . Upright , I think . Thank you . And some alcohol will help us a lot .
I want to dress . And then you always have to drive your car to go somewhere .
excuse me , what is your shop ? so when I order , I always have to ask what 's
inside of this . because , last night , I drank a lot . But I do n't think it 's
very safe if nobody knows much about the place or the landscape , because you
never know what would happen as in the picture . I will go to Shibuya in dinner
. I will be working for the newspaper again . But there must be nice ones at
Hiroshima . To buy some books . In a fine day , a girl and a boy go to a zoo .
It 's a also sales corner . I wonder . I 'm a customer ? the main point is that
it 's not just we the students move to the other class . I 'm sorry . But then I
eat a little bit of fish and the fish broth is always in Japanese food . I see .
I want to study about Human Literature next year . OK , there 's roughly forty
students in the club . I like dolphin is animal . two years ago , I wanted to
find out a new house because at that time , I lived in my parents ' house . I
will go to Shinjuku , and I play with my friend . Then , I want to use that tour
, but how it costs ? But depends on what kind of party . My name is Charlie .
more darkness . I mean they always welcome to and I bought him a clothes for
congratulation . It 's a very big city . I see . So that website is created by
women for women . Not really , not that much . So it 's good to live , I think .
Are you sure ? Because I had the receipt . I 'd like to go to travel by airplane
or ship or by car . And also we had a kind of school uniform . Why I think so
because I have been in Australia for three years . Yes , I do . And they ended
up staying in a hotel room and looking out outside from the room . About
anything in this picture ? Then , it was very beautiful place where they can see
mountains . But eventually , the boy and the girl brought the cat . Not so many
Japanese there . but their house was not so big . But still the differences say
, how should I describe it , in terms of the not only appearance but the way
they behave . Interesting in Turkey ? more nante iundaro whipped it or . I 'm
feeling like I 'm a student . And in the far end of the restaurant , a lady is
playing the piano . and they went to the zoo . I belong to Noh club . My room is
books and videos and somethings , my room i my room is very dirty . So I 'm very
in hurry . And this man came on a bike with a mobile phone on his hand . But ,
sometimes I want buy clothes , suddenly . I 'm in the house . My name is Charlie
. And " Star Wars " joei . It has a lot of supermarkets and schools and cultural
facilities like library and concert hall . Yes thank you . They looked at lion .
You are welcome . when I went to Okinawa in December with my friend , we went a
nice restaurant . but when I reached to Singapore , there 's nobody who received
me at the airport . My name is Charlie . She tried to attract the students more
. I 'm truly sorry again . And unfortunately , the man on the motorcycle bumped
in to the car . I do n't know . So we do n't have dogs . Maybe she 's gon na be
better than my English .... it looks just alike . there are , for example ,
boiled fish or curry rice , such a very ordinary foods . But I do n't know why
So rather than skiing , I prefer skating because skating , you do n't have to go
up , and you 're just going round and round on this flat surface . in the movie
theater because in the movie theater , yes , it is very big scene . and then his
father had to go somewhere with my girlfriend . And also , they have a very
different atmosphere than other restaurants . thank you . And then he just had
to have his motorcycle towed away because it was not fit to driving . It is nine
o'clock . He dropped his cellular phone . And it looks like it does n't fit me .
Yes , yes . She 's kind of like a waitress . So I do n't remember the scenery .
she 's eighty - four years old . Nice to meet you , too . and , you see , I live
alone , and the window is broken and have to work tomorrow . You know , we hang
out . You , too . I 'm from Saitama - ku . it 's not fair because I 'm a
passenger . So they get along very well . You know ? the place is right next
door . Thank you . I 'm working very harder in my office . I have to apologize
first that I could n't come to the party you invited me for . So that 's the bad
point I think . thank you . that 's why many people , I think they drive over
speed anyway . a small girl is playing in front of the big window who seems to
be a daughter of this family . Nice to meet you . And my father and booked a
restaurant we sat on the table . Only been about seven months or so . So I could
n't take on a plane I was planning to . And they big lion and next he is eating
soft cream and nandattakana koreha osarusanha . I would way And we went to the
same college , and she 's actress . Things are very deferent in my neighborhood
and the rest of downtown area . And I was born in Tokyo prefecture and always it
snows one meter or more . And not only the photographer , also his story about ,
the photograph in the mountain was quite impressed me . I have a one sister ,
and my parents . Just call me Charlie like a tuna . And he happen to come to
Japan . And also the attitude of the students is quite different . And I also
try to see a lot of movies and I try to see a lot of shows on T V to keep me up
- to - date about what 's going on inside those young kids minds . It 's summer
holiday there . it is featuring , I do n't know his name , but small boy and
directed by Steven Spielberg . So , see if I was talking to American people , it
's more easy for me to understand . Very fun . The clean up is too heavy . After
this I have school . maybe it 's not a car . And they promised to meet in the
front of restaurant . It 's OK , yes . Yes , I 'm fine , thank you . so and my
family does n't like animals . Hokkaido have fresh sea . ... ... But at some
points in her life , she has to make a decision . the door is open . So until
this coming this station , so today heavy traffic jam Thank you very much . I
likes play sport . fine , thank you . Yamanoko has very many people and boys are
more than girls . Because to tell the truth , I will reply for the programs of
Ryukyu as an exchange student . So I wanted to talk about it . I studied English
for this test . I was really surprised when I came like four months ago or five
. She is one year and two months . it 's my mathematics class I mean going to a
restaurant or like renting out a place would take money or take time as in
planning . But now she look at her pet . And Taro explained the situation to the
police officer . curry , ramen . I like it . So but this is a big store . and
then if you are on , you have to call your insurance company . But not Alpine
ski . So I want to go to New York are as soon as possible . I did n't do
anything . But before it , I go to Starbucks , because I like coffee . And you
know , like in Japan , you have P E lessons and you have to do certain things .
Or ride mountain bike . So it 's very convenient city , yeah , please invite me
again . And so at a resort area , you either swim or play golf . I want
something . sometimes I cooked for my family . I do n't like to read like really
hard ones or difficult ones . Thank you . ? Very very middle mild rhythm is very
favorite . And it 's seems nine o'clock , I guess . Nice to meet you . I hope
going abroad if I pass this test . Many , many . I need your help right now .
What a pity . And she loves animals . Because I used to live in France , and I
speak French . Japanese French . Thank you very much . in that shop , we can eat
the very real Thailand curry . Then , because of the arrangement of the police ,
finally , we agreed with each other and I told him I would pay a money for the
motorcycle in order to repair . U K ? And they were planning to go on picnic .
so I wanted to go to your party And I back to Gifu , about at ten yesterday . in
Okinawa , I can watch the many movies and playing the theater . and I think I 'd
like to stay at home and talk to my boyfriend about the job hunting or about my
study . And my wife cooked some dishes for us . I do n't remember . So I had to
telephone the police . so no lunch and no dinner today . But now , I ca n't go
to the movie . But actually my father and mother , they were pretty happy about
my decision . But if cat , maybe not . so we quickly packed . next month the
Yankees gon na come to play . And since it is one of the countrysides in Japan
you need a car to go around . So I could n't cook . so this is not my fault .
And boy talked to her . Now , we have a hamster . This size . But if I have the
driver , so it 's not good to idea to leave him alone , so I need to call the
police or of course hospital . In cold day , they go to the zoo in the afternoon
. I do . I went a restaurant with my father one day last week . I 'm not quite
sure , but maybe for the whole day . And I do n't know . my father , mother ,
brother , grandmother and me . So I present on back seat . I 'm going to work
again . I see . So would you please say hi to everybody and have fun . Maybe the
lecture is boring , it 's so by the book maybe . And I did that course . My name
is Charlie . I 'm accountant . in restaurant . And just , you know , cheer me up
. first , they saw the lion . My name is Charlie . you know , I mean I was
surprised and I got mad at him although he was not intentionally trying to , you
know , ... hit my shoulder . But I said , " No . " . I feel like I 'm like the
part of the wind , just going through the woods . And actually always that there
are a lot of flowers in Bali Island . Thank you . And she have a brown hair and
very cute . just read books . And the man , he 's tasting red wine . So , I have
to be with her . in aviation company , everyone has a shift for their job . How
about meeting at noon ? She went to the car . I mean , he 's old so he ca n't
run so much . I 'm trying to study because there was a mid - term , I just
bummed all the tests we decide which one 's not too crowded . You could go into
either one . And how do I get the New York as possible early . I mean , So if
you get off the platform , it 'll be very dangerous . My name is Charlie . And
she looks like pointer because her mother is pointer . In Saitama . And then I
ride off - road by mountain bike to mountain top . I have to work . They just
like using themselves . today I do n't study . because I was student . So
everyone paid money to me . I live in an apartment house and they playing in the
house . But I ca n't . But they do n't really care because they wo n't stop
lessons just for one person just saying like " You should n't be using your cell
phone . We are going to meet Hachikou mae . And behind this ski resort , there
is big mountains covered with white snow . So now , a waiter explain some wine .
Fifty dollars . So I think I want ask something to him . I have a bad news for
you . But I must take my daughter to the hospital . And I imagine what she like
. I really wanted to go . And we put those in our van , and went to the river .
maybe that 's why . And we found a cat in that box . just call . So I study hard
about accounting . and yeah , just a few small , easy dishes , I went to home .
Pardon atto Watch home pages or do chat or something . And the business man got
angry because the bag dropped into to the train rail because of the other man 's
elbow . That I 'm sure he likes parties rather than driving . You 're welcome .
Almost you can see any ethnic groups from all over the world . and I repair , no
, I clean my house . Thank you . It came from a box on the street . And Internet
, D V D and Play Station , newspaper , magazines , everything . Like sometimes
people have to check my name , you know , whether it 's right person or not . I
can buy it . So I need to get my English improved more and more . No , no , no .
It describes dinner . hundred fifty . Thank you very much . I mean , for example
, the job offered to you , you ca n't miss it . and I get her clothes and
everything the movie is plane crash . On the Wednesday . I 'm fine thank you .
Thank you very much . And he was using his mobile phone whilst he was driving a
scooter . please repeat . I 'm fine . Excuse me ? So I need help . But I quite
often come here and have bought quite a lot of things . But I promise I will
come to the next party . But anyway , we stopped at a traffic light . I 'm OK .
my name is Charlie . ? And I see a nice couple at the table . Thank you very
much . my hometown near the gym . I do n't know . classical music is healing ,
relaxing . Summer sports ? So that 's why I can not stop buying . I asked how
much are they . should I make up story ? I could n't catch it . When I enrolled
college . Because I just ca n't drive a big car . But the different thing is
that the supermarket in the United Kingdom did n't offer a plastic bag . When
John was trying to turn right , he did n't see the man on the bike . And behind
our house , we have a little farm . When will you be free ? So probably ten
minutes or something . My hometown is Okinawa . so we had to study very hard .
No , not really . And so , I called police and to come there See you . in my
hometown . so I enjoyed it very much . I 'll arrange my time . And her face is
calm . and two years ago , my friend give me a bicycle So could you refund or
exchange the new one . And I I decide I did n't decided which necktie is a best
for him . and I had to take him to the hospital . Because he is now thinking of
taking an entrance examination to Stanford junior high school . I just have to
say I 'm sorry . That is very cute movie . I like it . I live in Okinawa , in
Hiroshima - ku . So I ca n't go tonight . But I had a small gathering on last
Saturday . when I was in America , I took Spanish classes . the female teacher ,
she is teaching mathematics . My hobby is cooking . I often watch movies about
fourth a week . I live in Tokyo . where can I have a ticket ? But next time , I
really love to go there . old using tools . Yeah , I like antique . And four
kids are playing a snowball fight . Because I just ca n't stand the heat . there
is a bed with a cat . I want the shoes color is black . Track number two . my
hobby is do exercising and listening to music . when I have a bath , the bath in
this company together have a bath . Therefore , I have to go to a doctor to show
her . Let 's keep doing that . " . I am not fine . so maybe the restaurant has
not wine . From that company but not from the railroad . So bad , Many Americans
and there are among people who is involved embassy go there also . Maybe ski is
not , you know , my kind of thing to do . and I think he should n't do that .
Yes , it is . OK depend on the accident Grand Canyon ? I 'm kind of studying
Spanish right now . for example , the shoes were sold at thirty percent discount
. I just working here until you know , midnight or something and went back to
home So I want to eat lunch with you . It 's not the sports type or not mountain
bike style . I beg your pardon ? I brought in the trunks of car . I do like
cooking . The lyrics of the songs are really social ones . I had English grammar
and homeroom . this is Japan , but , in the United States , you might be sued by
me , if something happens to me . So I usually go out for dinner . So I really
do n't feel comfortable .... And it took me a lot of time to finish everything .
At first , it was very interesting , but gradually , I got tired of researching
. Thank you very much . â€” because I study tutorial for twenty hours , ja And I
was driving with my mobile phone in my ears . my wife 's father dead one years
ago . you can order anything . " . And there is a snowman in front of the car .
So I 'm wet . Now , I 'd love to see her . I am not afford to buy a expensive
one . And also , up here , there is a couple having tea , probably it was cold
outside so they are warming themselves up . It 's so difficult to master the
economics Thank you . And I lived there for nine years and one month . What 's
the proper term for , in Japanese , we use manshon . but our team mates are very
nice people . But I need a more tough one . Overtime working . my restaurant is
nandakke not expensive . But , now , I 'm very nervous . And no my sister would
like to my sister wanted to pick up that cat . I 'm very sorry that I could n't
make it because I had a bad headache However , it became very windy , and was
like a storm . I 'll just buy another ticket . And my father works in trade
business , like that . And they decided to go back . She like the kitten , and
she seems to keep the kitten . And we took the table , and the waiter is coming
. And it 's hard for me , but after that , I feel really , really comfortable .
" she choose the one of necktie . But after just we fixed up everything , there
was a storm . I was very surprised . I want to ticket to New York by train . and
I 'm so sorry to be late . so that 's a problem . He 's running . Then I went
home , and opened it . But weather is beautiful . No , but I might the go to a
Japanese university that applies S so I have no time to watch the movies . Yes ,
I do . My name is Charlie . All of them ? But maybe one year later , he will
come with my house because he will be junior high school . I used to live there
, seven years . it is located in the Saitama Prefecture . Really we did n't have
anything particular schedule , but we were just enjoying the scenery . I do n't
like to go to supermarket . Free time . So , hai only . Where do you want to
watch ? And he was complaining to the young man that was driving the car . Snow
mountain . Good morning . yeah , they drove to school . So , the subway I had to
take was greatly delayed and although I went to the station at the right time ,
but the subway train did n't start for half an hour . usually I have to do some
house work . I live in Hiroshima Station which is on the Hokkaido line . In
America . and we stayed with her from this morning . what do you think about "
Exorcist " ? Little bit tired . And she always hungry , and she always sleeping
. I give her ? So the hotel serves us at a little discount price . I do n't know
if ... go this . I 'm fine . My name is Charlie . So she was very exciting to
buy things for herselfs . I will back here a couple of hours later . you have to
study to know the laws to drive along the street . I talk about a monkey to her
and We go on from zoo . how can I say , one student who is a man who is crossing
his arm and having a chewing gum and looking outside . And sale . so I did n't
have time to go . And then , he reserved the seat for two in the restaurant and
he choice the course menu at the restaurant . Six thirty ? Do you know JICA ? it
seems very expensive because the speaker is very big . It 's very difficult
question . and so I have no idea Yeah , I think it looks very good . Nice to
meet you , too . And size of that is X L. and from healthy point of view , it 's
not very good for us who eat meat . That 's all . So , yeah , OK . Eighty
dollars . So , if they left the cat in the box , that cat will be die . can I
reserve ticket of a super express ? ? so usually . very much . if I go to the
Tokyo . My skin is so weak . Playing piano . Thank you so much . And , yeah ,
she likes to listen the music and send a mail or use a computer . Thank you .
And I thought this school would be like the best school for me to develop my
English skill . I liked it . It seems to be a mountain , and there are snow ,
and people are skiing . So , after using computer and sending e - mail , yes ,
of course , the no , communication style with the other people has changed by
using the computer . So I do n't remember that I had kind of troubles in my
shopping . My daughter ? So I will buy it . So they want us to advertise I do
n't know . And Bob asked the waiter have lunch with him we are two people . Do
you know Okinawa Line ? And so we got back into the car and we drove . I have a
very important meeting . Like Italian . yes , I like to , yeah . thank you . My
husband was raised up in Osaka . And she pick up a cat . not now . It 's seven
o'clock . I read books . No , I do n't so much . My name is Charlie . Last time
I did it . But I 'll do that . and one drinks and hearing some music . I lived
apartment . And there are many bookstore . Yeah , right . And after that she
worked for some work . I have a friend in Poland . But my boyfriends said me no
, and because he do n't like cats . And , beside him , we can see the lady
chatting each other about what happened around them . I will give you janaina
And my father is an architect . I 'm little headache . I participated in this
club there called Robotch Club in which you build the robot and you compete a
national competition . Green Mile " ? For example , the tent was going away by
the wind . And I was caught up with my family . I can refresh . And study . For
example , when I arrive at the hotel , and I think I ordered the suit room .
that 's all . One is sleeping right next to the bed . dinner party . And I want
to see your family members . Go ahead . and I really would like to attend , but
I ca n't . There are not so many good classes or studio . I mostly stayed home .
how could I say , just I 'd like to share all of things . You know the singer ?
Do you want to go there ? I 'd like to buy the ticket . fifty dollars ? And my
country is Kyusyu , so I 'm not aware of Tokyo city very well , but it is very
nice city . Junior high school student . This room is very clean . I have to go
to Kagoshima prefecture from now on . U. S. A 's and few weeks ago he visited
Hungary . yeah , for the people . and the waiter is recommend them a bottle of
wine , and the man is tasting the wine . So and after I woke up , I notice it 's
already no , ten o'clock . And also I will see my sisters . and I arrived here
at ten - thirty . On the train , like everyone 's talking and the people are
using cellular phones on the priority seats . Thank you , too . she paid money
for grocery . What 's different ? and I also do the hiring . And also , very big
supermarket is available , and , near the supermarket , the movie theater is
also . Tell me . but you know ... And then for example on weekends , sometimes
you have to dress up to go to a convenient store , right ? sorry , where selling
? And also at the same time , how can I say she is very good at creating the
story . Or no , this is maybe night time , could be morning . So it was a little
bit hard to understand that part . high school ? My second language is Spanish .
I really like this coat because this design is my favorite . I do n't have
appointment tonight . I actually got a job few days ago in this place called ABC
company , right . So it 's fine . But students are doing something else . Yes ,
in Europe . Just a moment . I 'm pretty good . it was really sudden and my
grandmother did n't even tell me that she was coming a one day last week the
woman went to department store to buy birthday present for her husband and she
chose the nice tie for present and got it . You have to do it yourself . After
school , I was playing basketball for three years . please tell me place where
you recommend . now , I do n't know what shonenhanzai is serious problem . Thank
you . And , the someone .... Colored black ? at first , I should ride Tobu Tojo
Line from Kawagoe to Ikebukuro and I change the train to Yamanote Line , and at
Takadanobaba , finally I change Tozai Line , and I come here . usually , I go to
theater . I study linguistics . That 's about it . I 'll get train of Osaka line
and get out of the Shibuya Station . So Isetan or Mitsukoshi or Takashimaya . it
was normal . having some good food , couple of drinks . Very easy . I have to
reach one hour later . how are you ? which train does it get on ? And he did
come back earlier so he was the one who got into the ambulance and went with her
. So and they understand me I have a wife , and one son and one daughter . every
weekend . And she paid three thousand yen for the tie . Nice to meet you . Thank
you . But it 's not possible , so instead of that , I 'll take another sweater ,
a bigger one . and then I do n't know what kind of solution please the ticket to
me . It 's not very far . I go to circle activity . But I do n't know how to buy
my ticket . so I have to take care of her you know , night time . actually , we
visit kind of club at Roppongi . I never thought of how I would manage this
class . And some people are skiing and some are playing snowboard . Among five
or six people or something like that . I probably look for I think you know , if
they match my other clothes or like how long I can wear it . So I could take any
courses . I wear a rainwear . but recently , yeah , he got a job . But everybody
brings something . Because we live in a riverside I do n't have any Yeah , very
interesting , It was year - end party and she 's from Okinawa My name is Charlie
. That is difference between cats and dogs . They have tatami rooms . They
already finish this S S T Test . Nice to meet you , too . it 's fun . , I
unfortunately I have to say that I ca n't attend the party tonight because a
friend of mine called me this morning , and she was in London this morning . And
she is so happy to find him . Thank you very much . how can I say , emergency
car . great office , great people , and it 's been fantastic , it 's been
splendid . and the last couple , they are about to get a food from the waiter ,
looks like the chicken . Then after that I brought my foods to my car and the
mother is chatting with neighborhood and the neighborhood is just come back from
the vacation . So I will bring some homemade cake for you . So a lot of
responsibility . And a cat is on her bed . In this they are talking about monkey
. One day last week , the lady went to the department store to buy a birthday
present for her father . warm sound , I like it . I was first worried about the
cost because it look like such a rich restaurant . I have a brother Do you have
any cheaper ones ? And I will do . yeah , uh do n't surprise er earth earth
earthquake . I 'm sorry I like dogs . I 'm so sorry . my house is apartment , so
I ca n't have some pets . I 'd like to go to Europe on my travel . Every
Christmas we go Hawaii . Hokkaido noodle is delicious . And I think it 's
healthy . If possible . this girl is , I think she is in her room . almost I
read magazine . but I missed the train by a small accident . So they usually go
to a park . right now ? I want it So that 's one big thing . And so I could n't
come here in time . and I have to clean up my room and so on . I 'm very sorry .
Then , we get together to study . But she always fail . Now can you get it for
me ? But Japanese environmental program is very bad . I 'm on backyard trying to
fix my car , but I ca n't . And all the tables are occupied by couples at night
I played kendo . can I exchange the tickets ? I was in very far place . But
sometimes I go to drinking with my friend after our job . Do you know ? " So he
has his own drink , which is his usual And old gentleman is reading a newspaper
outside on a bench . But I was so busy . For example , fishing , karaoke and
convenience store , so on . The cat on the bed . OK , the lady are sitting in
front of the desk . My name is Charlie . he was born when I was university
student . So could you leave it with you , and please let me know if it is
possible after talking with your manager . I 'm living in Kumagaya town . And
teachers looks nervous . Or she has a relaxing time now . That 's different
thing I learned there . So if I use the super trains , or if I use the local
trains ? My home town ? Thank you very much . just once a week , on Thursday , I
teach English . And presently they crushed . J R ? the textbooks are English .
And then , I put some of these prepared things with rice without washing . "
Silent Service " . but I ca n't go . Between Roppongi and Nogizaka . New Year 's
? And there are two other boys playing with a ball , seemingly playing
volleyball . Actually , I used to live in like Kami - igusa . I want to wait at
five at the evening . We do n't have that . I live in Okinawa . probably , this
picture is the anywhere restaurant . only one person to join . And I can use
stocks at skiing . So that totally different world . But I 'm tired because I
practice American football hard before today . I studying furniture and
architect . Swimming and shopping . Winter sports , actually I have a plan to go
with my mom to Shibuya to have lunch . I do . too bad . Maybe , three two hours
. So there are four people in that car . So you ca n't miss it . Two are boys
and a girl . there is a dog and cats . only me . Hello , Charlie . let 's see .
And you ? Once a month . And storm came . And my grandma helps him . Can I talk
to your manager then ? It 's OK ? But I think it was the Canadian or from the
States , did also well . So that 's a big difference . But in my case I live in
Kyoto in Chiba prefecture . I see . Thank you for inviting me . So can I talk to
another person who is responsible for that ? I do n't know , I just do n't want
to . But before he could reach the bag , a train came and ran over his bag . In
April . I understand the situation . thank you . Yes , I did . Most delicious
pasta . We could n't enjoy it so much . Everything mixed . Keep me awake .
Thirty thousand yen ? Look like interesting building . maybe it was so crowded
and movie Who I am ? And we made lots of practical things . â€” cards and stuff .
A little . if you travel by train , you can enjoy scenery but you must bring
your baggage by yourself . Free time . My friend want to drive me . Not so
convenient . is it possible I watch it . Yeah , thank you . And I could n't say
" No . " . Thank you . And I like making . So at last , I admitted her to bring
a dog to her home . But , maybe , in six months , I will change to the sales
person . First I lived in a dormitory . Thank you . That 's it . So I think the
person who ride on the car did not compensate , People from all over the world .
So I like temples and shrines . the woman had gone to the depart . My most
favorite movie , , recently , so , is " Cube . " . I 'm sorry Actually I live in
Gifu now . He is nineteen . Thank you . nandakke wakannaissune . Thank you . So
it 's OK . So that 's the good point . And they stayed there that night so they
did n't have to get wet in the rain . And , right , will you have a lunch with
somebody ? The boy and girl go to the zoo at the Sunday . And I like musical
There are five hundred thousand people live in Hiroshima City . and my wife ,
too . Nice to meet you . You are welcome . If it is a Valentine 's Day , I will
prepare dinner by myself . Even though I like skiing , I do n't like cold
weather . They come on time every single day . you free time . and I have a lot
of complains of my work . But it 's raining . I sometimes play tennis with my
friends . this is Charlie . do you have the blue one ? So still I 'm quite
interested in taking lots of pictures . one woman walk her dog . I want to buy
new clotheses , or pants , or shoes . Last restaurant , the end of the last year
with my family , I went to Italian restaurant in Osaka . but in a telephone
shopping . And they could n't meet each other . But it was very nice nature . I
would definitely use a train . I like pizza , pasta , Chinese . it is the
license of advising for customer 's life plan . so we take the cat and went back
to home . They arrived at the camping ground . or I can see some other
supermarket or book shops , something like that . Fine , yes , please . " . I do
n't know maybe people stress on freedom or other things . in U K I like dog .
Six days a week . You 're welcome . I like vivid color , so I want plastic or
vinyl type . A four and seven . So , they were talking about a movie after
movies . It 's very exciting . I guess it 's because I 'm not good at it . Maybe
, she works at home . But he did n't know which is the best but she kept begging
to keep the cat , and , after that , I could not tell her that I did n't want a
kitty to take to my home . but , Japanese people how can I say , tend to buy
pets , based on the nante iukana trend . the Germany in summer has good weather
and seldom rainy day . Hokkaido is nice place . it 's computer is very easy use
. I see . I intended to give you a call . I 'm not good at cold . But the car
driver said , " That 's motorbike 's fault . No , no , no , no , no . Have you
heard Pittsburgh ? And I just drived five minutes to check the car 's condition
. Then I came here . red sweater . While they were driving , they found one
hotel called Cosmos . Tickets like what ? But , finally , I got lot of foods in
a car , and then I went back . It has a very nice background probably in culture
. I do n't know how we are in there , but maybe we are with kids But they died .
Fridays , Saturdays , Sundays . Commute system ? yeah , in the field of
anthropology . nice to meet you . and she has a cat and dogs and they are
sleeping now . I have my two girls . And already you know , there 's a casino in
Osaka . So yeah , I choice a regular family restaurant , or yakiniku restaurant
, or so . And at the same time , the other man was driving a bike making
telephone call to his girlfriend . It was fantastic view . it was a brilliant
beautiful day . so it 's very , very convenient . Good afternoon . Actually this
is my first time to go to Hawaii . But it was actually too small for me . And
the monthly fee and there 're like handling fee . our company 's president ,
mister Hokkaido held the home party . my room is old house . I play with my
friends . All right . They 're playing a different groups right now . How about
tomorrow ? So most difficult thing is Japanese has many word same pronunciation
. So I wanted to study that . And now he is talking about his child 's score in
his school . she enjoy shopping . I know that . Because I have to start driving
from April . So I want to take a express train . I had a wide foot , but short
size length . This is Charlie . Therefore they had to call the police . before
next day is white day . But I still have this ticket . Thank you for the test .
And after that they went back home . not bad sister . And I paid and shopkeeper
give it to me . But while I was in New York , after I left from Indianapolis
when I went to New York to see my co - worker and my clients , and then I saw
some Broadway Musical and , do you know Stump ? That 's fine , that 's fine .
And I can work for whole my life . I see many people there . so maybe I have to
study . I think they are chatting about their child , I think . That 's all . Or
Daimaru . go shopping and play catch ball and ma play telebi games , with my
friends . And they meet at twelve o'clock at the gate . do you go to theater
with me ? finish watch the movie . one of my friends are crazy about billiard .
so so I want to eat the Italian foods for the lunch times with my friends . They
were just waiting for me to , yeah Thank you . Looking forward to it . So my
wife loves the place warmer . And the time is nine o'clock . Just I like to have
like mild taste . ? Everyday wear . that was a studio in Okinawa . I like Indian
food . one day last week , there is a couple walking in the street . I could n't
come up with a word . maybe I just feel a little bit better by seeing the
animals or fish so they make me a little bit happier . All right . So the leader
was already the leader right now in April . That 's better than video . I know .
My name is Charlie . Drinking wine . Once again ? The time is now seven o'clock
. Thank you . I usually have a lunch in my home . And there are many , many
fishes , corals . And on the bench , man who is old is reading a newspaper . And
there are actually three dogs in this picture . So and this is a autumn , autumn
And some students are listening to the class eagerly while others are listening
to the radio , or chewing the gum , or also chatting . It makes me out of stress
. But their religion is different from Japanese one . After that , just do
weight - lifting . big shop . Yes , I want to watching lion , tiger cheetah lion
and cats rui and I like it very much . And Italian and French and Switzerland .
One day last week , I mean one family planned to go to picnic . my mother works
for another hospital , and today is her night shift . And also , I see a lot of
people , especially , children playing around the house and two women having a
chat on the road . So we can play punk rock music easily . I like train more
because I can sleep . So this is only experience of myself , right ? And I
cooked fried egg and something . I would explain to the teacher that or I would
call the teacher before the exam begins and then I would tell him that the train
is late so I ca n't make it on time . Actually the connection was bad . When I
was in college , I skied , how many times ? My hobby is sports . And so if I
miss that appointment , you know , it will be a big disadvantage for me to start
recruiting . So he says " Are you OK ? " call my owner and have her exchange
that night . And , when she was going out , she looked sale for ladies ' shoes
and ladies ' clothes . I know it 's very sad . the turtle wants small fish or
shrimp or dried fish . I mean , but we just got OK . She came home . my parents
are both Japanese , so they wanted me to be able to speak Japanese . I like to
see the mountains . And one dog on the floor . We have a party . the girl
sitting on the chair , and points the computer . And we were supposed to get up
early in the morning , and I went out to watch new year 's sunrise . now I live
in Tokyo by myself , so in my room I need to have dinner or breakfast by myself
, so sometimes I feel lonely . And the the people who are enjoying skiing and
snowboarding are only adults . we like Italian restaurant or Mexican restaurant
. yeah , the rabbits ' eyes seems to be kind . My husband is much younger than
me . But I guess , I used every luckiness in that car accident . It was located
in Tokyo , Tokyo Hokkaido , and I was there I 'm shy to do this kind of thing in
real life . I do n't like as well . This weekend ? what time you available ? I
think this was so the Valentine Day is a good opportunity for them to show their
love to the boys . I go to theater at afternoon . But my uncle drank a cup of
wine . And I went only sightseeing spot . One is a tutor . I like wood and fresh
air . when I arrived at home , it would be around six o'clock . No , no , no ,
no . That 's a difficult one . However Steve no , he did n't avoid accident .
End of the story . I 'm pretty good . Only three . Just relax . And
unfortunately , my baggage which was holding by me dropped on the railroad . And
we found a nice hotel . so I want sky - blue shirt . They were listening and
they were responding to the teacher 's questions . Thank you . would you show me
cheaper one ? Yes , it 's like that . this building here is called Y O G ,
Yamanouchi Office Garden . And childrens are playing . On Hot days ? I. I will
go up to the man that works at the train station . That 's it . And what kind of
movie do you want to see ? especially , I like to go to the party . Eating and
drinking them we saw the movie showing terrible scene many times . And this is
me ? Area like , area ? I bought something to cook and meat or bread and some
special sauce and vegetables . Nice to meet you . a type of person uses a lot of
time to do shopping . I 'm fine , I like elephant . But I spent my elementary
school days in the States . One hour and fifteen minutes . I 'm used to it .
Thank you . in my literature 's friends . he is very fun . But from Monday to
Friday , yeah , almost everyday , very busy . and I had a very good time . So
yeah , buying things . And just always keep your seatbelt buckled . And we
prepared a lot . but my friends were very surprised and said , " Thank you very
much . " to me . Thank you very much . Just he is first grade . Maybe it was
nearly one month ago . And there is some of the things I have to learn . And for
the general subjects , I teach communication and listening , yeah , to
particularly freshman . the family was really kind to me and that was great
experience for me . Last , OK . There are many bus and trains , but , at least ,
when I consider my daughter , school and other public offices must be or should
be closer for my daughter and my wife . I like used clothing . you want to say
my blame ? yes , room , OK . door is opened . when the person playing the people
, the good point is sports is very good for physical and mental . And they speak
the contents of the movie . Yes , I see . Like it 's really cute . before I 'm a
transfer student to Harvard . And they moved eighteen years ago to America
because of my father 's company . So I decided to join the club . and not exact
one hour . I like to have a dog . so I have strong memory . Ninety minutes .
Because it was old building . And I eat her cook to dinner . in this season ,
near my house , a very beautiful . Yeah , no , no , no , no . And so of course ,
I reserve the morning ticket , but last night I had the party with my customer
and my colleagues So it was February I enjoy it . but now , I 'm looking for a
bread for tomorrow 's breakfast . And we packed up . And it 's so fresh you know
, not that dirty . After work , yes , I 'm very happy to go home . but , in
Hokkaido , I do n't have so many chances to eat such a delicious food . It could
be that she has to have the infusion as I have experienced before . But I like
to go jogging . If I keep an eye on them , I start to criticize . she has taught
me a lot about how to deal with other people . So now , I sometimes go to the
river side . tyotto matte nan daro is chotto wakan Credit analyst . Then we 'll
talk . , that 's so he said . I like Shibuya very much . But actually it 's
sometimes very reluctant to listen to me or Platform number ? I like them very
much , and I really enjoy teaching Japanese . express train , please . Thank you
. around my house . it 's a sunny day . And small nandaro my name is Charlie .
Two hour . Nice to meet you . actually , after I entered the university , I
started to use e - mail . is this me ? it takes two hour from here . In Summer .
And , now , I do n't like Bon Jovi . But after that , I was walking around the
department store . and we had very beautiful music . I do n't smoke with my
family . in Tokyo ku . I think in American English , probably you do n't use the
term for apartment for this skyscraper - like building . And , you know , I do
n't have money right now , and I really need money or change it to another train
. My hobby is to play soccer . She does n't like to make a lot of friends and
talk but it 's Hakone or Odawara . Because I had good sleep yesterday . but ,
and the person came with a truck and got this motorcycle to the repairing shop
yeah , if they have children . No , not at all . So , when I 'm with him , I can
relax and , I can have kind of fun . Thank you very much . I live with my
parents and grandfather . So it 's a little bit sad for me . About him ? And
then that time , I forgot to call you . my hobby is playing sports . So you can
talk to your boss . So right now , we are on winter vacation , but in the spring
, it gets really warm , and from the doujou that we practice at , you can see
the cherry blossoms really well . But you know , when I took it home , it did
n't really match my other things . But the more of it So that 's why I came back
, and , you know , And I stayed there for about two weeks . Yes , with my family
. It 's really diverse . So I guess I usually decide where to go . And then the
police came after that My parents said that it is very sad to look the pets when
they die . What do I miss most about America ? it 's fair and blue skys . So ,
that is the best advantage to holding a pets . And but recently she has told me
that she has gotten interested in using English and maybe she would like to
continue learning English when she goes on to college . my father died seventeen
years ago . maybe she said this was a present for her husband . Short story .
Usually , we spend one day of weekends to go gymnastics and exercise . they go
to , ka , a zoo . But , especially , she is good at meat loaf . First name .
This year . I love Canada very much . And the door is opened . I 'm doing great
. I 'm fine . And she checked on register So I have to go to the dentist and let
him see it . And I usually dance on the school festival . usually , I do n't
have any profession of my own , but I go to school in Tokyo which is the center
of Kyoto , so it 's quite away from where I live . I mean , he lives soccer No ,
I 'm sorry . I like the history of England . And the man on a motorcycle came
from the different direction and he was calling his girlfriend with his cellular
phones . outside of town . We had almost stayed in hotel , and in among four
days , we went to beach only one day . Thank you . I 'm freshman . And the girls
looks happily about this . this is a classroom and the student life there was
very different . you mean with computer or hand writing ? it is Italian
restaurant . so I think it 's very fast to the time pass . so I have a lot of
assignment in my job . but the almost all of them do n't listen to what , the
teacher said . So the classes were very strict atmosphere and a kind of strange
, I think now . until I was a high school student , I lived in Hokkaido . One
hour . And then , there is sorry , a audio set , and then , the single bed . And
we put up the tent and tried to cook or started cooking something . So , next
Saturday , twelve . Sometime , I hardly listen to the teachers , but someday I
was boring very much of the teacher 's lesson . I can drive . My name is Charlie
. And then I move to the States nine or ten years ago . But skiing , it 's two
boards . Thanks , bye . And some good friends . I family restaurant . But
everybody said it 's kind of strict system . Thank you very much . Tenth of
February . Or at the weekend , I go out with my husband to do exercise , or to
play basketball in the sports gym something like that . But everyone listen to
my lesson so seriously . I went to Italy before . I drink beer and have luxury
food . But you know , sometimes we could but not everyday . one is bringing her
dog . I do n't eat meat . My favorite animal ? Thank you . but I like music and
reading book . Yeah , except Friday . My name is Charlie . Both of the men
stopped . Maybe , you know , the half prices were still very good for them . I
'm fine . So I like to go there and walking in the park . That means I bought
too much . Good afternoon . just a moment , please . that sushi shop , sushi is
rounding . And this person 's car and the motorcycle happened to crash . So
three or four set of computer . And maybe this room is hers . I angry . then ,
Chiba we will meet at twelve o'clock at Hokkaido Station . it 's England . Very
much . So they decided to call the policeman . and , in the sea , I swim , and I
too expensive . In Egypt ? so I have to go to supermarket . But you know , and
you can go in Just gathered there . And the man has just tasted the wine and her
husband present . So â€” sorekara saw the monkey . Do you know Hiroshima ? I 'm
waiting my friends . " I want to go to drink with you . " . Because my desk is
not study desk . So she usually care my baby . Let 's see . I live in Hokkaido .
I 'm Charlie . So I had a chance to learn a lot of English . Priority is the
price . Children play with ball . But , you know , you know , I went to school
by the train and buses . how much , yeah , ticket fee ? What do you mean ? And
my daughter is really easy to catch cold . But she bought a tie . Do you know
Naha ? And then , we sometimes , yeah , feed a little bit . can I have a refund
? I 'd like to see some your basketball shoes . And actually , I do n't know .
And she went back home with tons of shopping . examination tomorrow is most
important one for me . last Saturday . Because the culture is in Japan . So they
were making another plan . And I 'd like to make dinner or meal . You know I
think it 's pretty OK . my wife 's born schedule is maybe Golden Week . Thank
you . Is that OK ? For example , uniforms . I 'm sorry . My town is fresh town .
and I 'm now interested in arts management . I often go to cafe in the morning
or every Saturday of Sundays . a cat is sleeping in a bed . first , most time ,
Gifu starts new products . this morning , I took Hiroshima Line from Hokkaido
Station to Chiba Station , and I changed the train for Chiba and I took Tokyo
Line from Hiroshima to , actually , Saitama , because my office is located in
Okinawa , so . but I ca n't come because my mother is sick , and she 's now in a
hospital . I usually sleep or read books or play with my friends . nnto nan I
often listen to the music and watching T V , so on . Is this room . I have been
married three years ago . Yes , I do . But not that much . but the next train is
not full yet . I read newspaper . It 's black shells and it does n't look nice
to me . Hello , my name is Charlie . Our town is very very beautiful town . am I
Charlie ? what 's the ideal ? So that was OK . No problem . And I was from
France . thank you very much , and sorry . And a cat is sleeping on it . One day
last week . Stuff like that . Thank you . because I am graduate school student .
and she sent our invitation letters of our wedding . My hobby is watching sports
. Thank you . but I ca n't come . I usually go to Tokyo . thank you . but now ,
the job was finished . Thank you . Direct train . In Japanese , it is called
sandan . I like French movies So , after that , we said good - bye each other
and made a promise to see again in the near future . My parents and my younger
brother . How many rooms ? this is open this weekend . American carrots . I
spent last Christmas with my girlfriend . Thank you . So , I think it 's a big
difference . I prefer Sendai . So I called the police , and explained to the
policeman that , the was , mobile phone was the cause of the accident . Not so
bad in Japan . I hope it will be successful . And I was having trouble with my
boyfriend then . We can play very well . Last week , OK . I can see only one .
transportation is not really covinient . Just a moment , please . very nice .
one of the purpose , I guess . Yeah , like the food , like the set . So you
should have explain it beforehand . Some people skiing . This weekend . But I
take a next one , and I made it in time . I 'm sorry . she use computer on the
desk . But after I got home , I thought , you know , this is not the exact thing
I was looking for . After that , she cooked egg 's foods . And father , mother ,
and old brother . and she bought her clothes . yami - nabe is a kind of strange
nabe , I think because â€” So , you know , it 's not nice to have you contact
Cindy for me . I ate a lots . And suddenly , the train came . Real doll . No ,
no . I want to have a big T V. And we prepared for the camp and preparing part
was really fun . I went to the movies with my two friends . And , in college , I
started thinking about my future . I make an effort to solve cusotmers ' problem
and when I find the correct way to solve the problem I 'm very happy . And I do
n't know actually what she is doing . and so I have to have to make some
documents . And it 's safety but food is terrible . But of course I have n't
worn yet , and I have original receipt . and I 'm thinking that that kind of
goods would be suitable for one I 'm giving to or not . Two years . I was there
. Last time when I went to a restaurant . ? Because my mother work all the days
But you can just take a copy for to confirm my identity . Because I was in the
England six or seven months and studied English conversation and histories , and
just almost I learned conversations . There is a entertainment system . There
are four trees . Such as jazz and pops , sometimes classical music as . I do n't
have much things to do right now . Actually , I have to . And I like China , too
. I 'm not Then OK . How much ? So she went to department store to buy it . It
was an on car accidents . I 'm fine . But man accidentally attacked him . But I
just remembered that I had a test today . this is a nante iu Doing my job ? And
a truck came to the place of the accident . what color . I like magazines . OK ,
thank you very much . And I play with my friends , and read book . And the lion
was watching them . No , I do n't , I think . In high school ? it 's very nice
memory when I was in Switzerland , yes , I enjoyed skiing in a very local ski
ground , yeah , with people And a couple wears a very formal dresses . And then
, she went to another part of the department store . Thank you . On the other
hand , the wife looks to be very cute . So policeman came to listen them . , I
think cat . I go to Daikanyama and Harajuku . But the Ken said , " I do n't know
because our apartment owner does n't allow that the keeping the any animals . "
. " They saw monkeys eating banana . I like magnet type . He prepare something ,
and he will go to take her to her house . two ticket please . So my apartment is
security is very good . So they were thinking about where they can go . I just
can relax with my dog . So I 'm gon na call them . When we got out , we talked a
little more So I had to prepare for dinner . So I moved into Osaka . But since
my brother is in Hiroshima and then my father , he was away from home . Yes , I
do . I usually I mean , try to talk like why you think so but that time was the
first time when I had these kitties . Three o'clock ? And they prepared for
watching a movie . Near the Kichijoji , there is the Tokyu department . big dogs
, or small dogs . So , could you tell me the hours , I mean flight hours from
Japan to Pakistan ? And the kids are playing snowball . He agreed with her . But
it 's six time dattakana I 'm a little bit nervous . So I have to do tonight .
she cooked fried eggs and cook stew . I do n't like busy places like Tokyo .
they drink beer . But the place where I teach is evening classes , Free time ? ,
so I decided to study English literature in Japan since I was going back to
Japan . Could you arrange the plan ? I make objects by iron and clothes and a
lot of materials I used . But my wedding is in two weeks . In the morning , just
sleeping . The difference between the concert hall is the live house has a
smaller capacity , and we can feel the musician more closer . One way . And last
thank you Hello , Charlie . I usually go shopping in Shinjuku . Big sounds and
big screen is important for movies . Who is he ? Yes , I used to ehh bartender
used to be bartender . And we were planning to eat some curry with rice . Is it
OK ? And we use no , digital cameras and mike . And I has a middle size garden .
Yeah , generally , my upper manager , often they went to the overseas , so ,
before I went to the Germany I live in Okinawa . Because my father is a medical
doctor . at last , I carried cart to the cashier , and I paid in cash . I did
n't have to major . And so it is dark . of course , yeah . And they lives
together . ABC company makes them . Because when I worked harder , he can invite
me to go to such kind of restaurant , I think . But my girlfriend said " Please
. The woman , sitting the chair . Besides the tent , they had curry ready and
rice so they could eat it for dinner . And nandarou . We have the variety of the
pesticide product , one of the solid , other is a liquid . We were on family
vacation to skiing in Hokkaido . now is the seven o'clock . and it 's too hot .
See you . And I explained what exactly happened . I use a futon . , not noisy .
she started talking a little bit . She is historic novels writer . Thank you .
And find the hotel down the mountain . Thank you very much . And it 's a typical
scene of a Japanese school at this moment . If it 's good things I will believe
it , but if it 's bad , I 'll try to forget it . Then I bought one suits , and
then another good is good for my daughter . I 'm really sorry so more early
train ? Only on a web site , so you ca n't buy at shop . So they are dealing
every day . And a woman playing a piano . Any plan ? If you want to try out for
that ? " . How much ? " . " Two boys . Because dogs and cats are not so friendly
each other . I do n't have any particular hobbies . Yes with my cell phone . I
live in Hiroshima . And there are many couples so . OK , thank you very much . ?
so , in Brisbane , I went to Norton Island . I will have just relaxing time , I
think . My mother made it so I could put into the microwave and just warm the â€”
in it , set for my brother and father . But I 've been sent to the Internet
online company called ABC company , and I worked there for two years . So he
lifted his arm quite hard and fast that the luggage that I was holding , it fell
off to the wait I 'm work in C A my job is technical support . so tomorrow , I
'm going to climb mountain . Especially bookstore or electrical store . In the
stock ? see you . , my managers recommended , " After one week , maybe , you
eager to eat Japanese dishes , so this place there are very famous Japanese
restaurant and there â€” " . Just with the close friends . And if they would get a
good business they expand to the other places to the branches . And among all
these other people . So I grow up about approximately Saitama . How about you ?
do you know the city name of Hokkaido ? Favorite activity . And two , because
probably the way the teacher teaches is not that good at all . And , yes , this
is the end of story . My name is Charlie . after they finished lunch , they went
to the cashier to pay for the meal . Next time they buy popcorn and juice .
Takahagi is how many times do get the New York by local train ? OK , thank you .
I 'm ready . In autumn ? do you know the Cinema Shibuya ? Just go to beach and
sit aside you know , the street and see the ocean . And very romantic . But I
love dogs than I love cats . And I 'm interesting to eat something for me . to
go there . All right . And , another time , while I was parking hit another car
very sligh slim , but still damaged . But she said even though she could n't get
on the shinkansen train , her ticket will be changed to next train . But those
two got totally different personalities . I really liked the bird So I decided
to go to supermarket to buy the foods . and it was quite embarrassing . One day
last week , young man was driving his car . By metro . So I 'll call him right
now . in Ayutthaya , there were many old things . It 's OK . Because I went to
girls school But how could I help it ? to prevent . At that time , a girl has a
soft cream . I am shopping food fruits or clothes . No . Not at all . I like
shopping Very good . And I want to a that a house This present was for her
husband 's birthday . but nowadays , it 's so cold . And I 'll give you my phone
number . And sorry , her boyfriend caught some sounds , mew , mew . Actually ,
we have to put a lot of equipments on our body , and it 's heavy . Is that OK ?
But each does n't meet . So I could n't take . it 's in Chiba . How much is the
monthly fee ? And I will find a book about housing . Thank you very much , thank
you very much . It 's not crowded and it 's the new town I say no , but my
girlfriend is strong . Come here . So my lesson is drive safely , yeah . I read
it and very excited . Good morning . Yeah , that 's right . I have two boys . In
my case Ginza Mitsukoshi or Shinjuku Isetan . but when the train passed , the
bag remained on the rail . And she pay regi counter . It is very amazing . Today
is a little busy . usually , I listen to music and play deejay . I do n't know .
She have dog and cat . One day last week , with some coincidence , we met my
uncle and just front of a restaurant . but I did not have a very good experience
in there . So , is it OK if I come at around six o'clock ? so , nandarou , good
combination calorie and vitamin . And I paid in cash . and you know , not caring
much about this . Of course , how it cost . I want super express ticket . I went
to California more than ten years ago . Thank you very much . I love the rock ,
and rock star always takes the flower one or fruit one , so I always buy it . ?
The other time I made a speech is I gave sort of speech of farewell also to the
graduates of high school when I was in the second year of high school , I mean
when I was the sixteen or seventeen . It 's fine . So I think it 's good like or
yes , I go out with my friends . And children are playing the snow throwing .
has a little accident which was out of my plan . I lived in the north part of
Tokyo called Kyoto . I do n't have computer , but there is a T V. But when she
speak to her mother , so my grand mother , or her sisters on the phone , she
speak in Kansaiben . so let 's watch it . ? ? no , I have never been , but I
want to go abroad sometime . Mel Gibson . And she bought a nice necktie for him
. I 'm from Osaka . And the I practice about twenty minutes to thirty minutes
everyday before I go home . They bought some drink and popcorn . So that 's what
I teach my students , too , to be punctual . But if you have any vacant seat I
would like to have it because I have a you know , important appointment in my
you know , way afterwards . and I wanted to go somewhere really bad . Probably I
ask somebody in the station to pick up my baggage . I do n't know . Because my
friend was a manager . please say hello to them . very exciting . I want to ask
his strategy in our company , and what he 's thinking and what is my main idea .
you have only black one ? Do you know " Chocola " ? and I would like to exchange
the ticket for the next train if it 's OK . Milan is famous of picture on the
wall . So this season is very busy . In Japanese ? And if I 'm free and not
hurry , it 's OK , I 'm waiting . Thank you . There are many people from
housewife to college student and retired men as . I wanted to go by all means .
do you think I 'd better call him directly ? yes , OK . And it 's not this clean
, and my room is dirty . And I really appreciate that I can take advantage of
that transportation system . And I think in Tokyo , we can go more places than
Hokkaido , but too many people , I think . And my sister is eighteen and she
lives with me . So I want to buy it . so I want to nice shoes . And he said I
could order anything After this interview ? all things is blue . He said , "
tomorrow we 'll have a party in the Okinawa Station , " but I like it . is kind
of attract to me . and he is a coach of a kind of school of skiing and he is
teaching skiing to the beginners . Then they go home . Thank you . My name is
Charlie . Good bye . And drawing . the train you mentioned before was what time
will that train leave ? And they could feel relaxed . Since when I entered this
company . sure , OK . So we get into the car . I live in Hiroshima . So they 're
very diffedrent . The most big difference is this room is bigger than my room .
not meal coupon , but some kind of what should I say , tour ticket and official
point . plastic bag ? So I went to supermarket by my green small car . but there
was a traffic accident near the station . And so I ca n't count on just myself
doing without anything . You 're welcome . I play tennis , footsal and
volleyball . there is my house in Hiroshima . when is it ? and he read some such
a books . And my parents they are about sixty years old . no , I do n't normally
cancel the dinner party or party . But police is there and trying to hear the
story from the driver of the car who seemed to have hit the bike . Disneyland is
taking over . and I can catch that . kaishain work in zenekon . ? But beautiful
place . I want clothes . Yes , I would like to return this product . So I
thought the medium would be a little bigger or something . Saying it like in
about two months a year . but we do n't have it . because I want to study
English literature I and my boss only two person . And I do n't think you should
leave them , you know . so I go swimming . walking around . If we were doing
math , they would point to the students to do the problems . I ca n't cook .
Saturday lesson . But pets are not listening to her . And I want to buy a record
. he is very gentleman . I 'm planning to move . totally bad . And we eating a
chicken . But both of them started say " I 'd like to have a room . " Thank you
very much . So I have no way to do . But British is runned . Yeah , I always
burned it . And I would n't do a thing like that . from Monday to Friday , I
back home at nine o'clock . Thank you very much . there are many kimono ,
especially , we say juni hitoe . Since September . One day last week . I have
been Wisconsin for one month from the last end of August and end of December to
study English . But when the police came , I just explained what 's going on .
the country is very similar to Japan and have many , many interesting point ,
and I can go Asian country for lower cost than Western countries . hello , this
is XXX02 . It 's called " Yamaoka " . So then he send me a mail I want to buy
one bag and color Because she loves spend money . It takes about five minutes .
I do n't know what the people , think about . Last Friday a man and a women were
walking along the road in the rainy day . And since the same company gave me the
slip of the Thank you very much . Thank you . And a headache . And a housewives
living with her husband and two sons . after that , she carried it and got into
her car and went home . Yes , I like . It 's good for us . But sometimes it 's
impossible to solve all the problems . Thank you . I should say yes now .
Smoking seat , please . not only England British also It 's nice to be with like
a group of people , like a smaller group . One day last week , a woman go to
department store and she bought a necktie to her husband , birthday present .
twice a month . Daikanyama , Aoyama , Harajuku . until I graduated high school I
thought that I was playing soccer , for about more than ten years I like tennis
. I go there once a week . Rag Tag . I think more strong striker . I think I was
eight in ... Next , we go to monkey place . you can always change a policy for
me . We have a lot of snow in winter season . I 'm so sorry about that . and I
'm sorry that I ca n't come I buy a ticket cheaper ticket . So I play cello .
usually we go to shopping near the supermarket . And she wanted to look it , and
tried . because the man who driving car did n't checked around . Last movie ? I
'm not interested in lunch chain . So they take care of me . And , even though
she is really busy , she is really happy with them . It would be a kind of trash
. I ca n't . And she was eating ice cream . And seems like I ca n't even get up
out of bed . No , I did n't wear uniform . but , yes , she was OK . Thank you .
So that 's what I do for my spare time to relieve myself or to go refresh up a
little from life and work . it 's Sunday and the father is running to get some
exercise because he gained weight lately . Actually , this week end , so it 's
our marriage anniversary . So and one year ago , interests was cheaper than now
, and analyst said current interests is lowest . I want to watch soccer game in
Germany , but I do n't know the team names and detail in Germany 's soccers . So
I 'd love to go especially for England because I have friend there . Yes , they
like zoo . It 's capital of Gifu . And there , I spent four years But it 's not
that kind of town . So last year , I enjoyed basketball once or twice a week . I
'm fine , thank you . I went to shopping with my friends that I met in
university , and I bought many clothes because the clothes I used to wear in the
university was like jeans , so I ca n't wear it in the office . and I thought
that maybe they did n't have time to do it in their homes or something . I often
use VISA card . twenty minutes before the disaster . And my mother want to go
sightseeing oversea . I live in Saginomiya , Seibu Shinjuku Line . I usually
read magazine . But , now , ABC company decided to leave some stocks . she do
n't see her face . So it takes about two hours from my house to my parents '
house by car . I went to ski with my coworkers and enjoy skiing and drinking .
because it 's very good for stressing out . But other students have no intention
to study . But they are think so . So they wanted me to take them to the
baseball . So she is now busy , so , she ca n't get wedding . And my heart is
full of something . ? So I thought it was my size . Last December , she started
to walk . and I 'm reading books or cooking or so . does it ... ? I 've never
been dinner party . The train comes . when you sit down on the chairs , and also
take off the chairs , some beginners get the poles stuck on the snow , and some
people really getting trouble sticking on the poles and your body stuck on the
poles , and finally chairs stop . My name is Charlie . You too . food is so good
for us . we are from one school and we have like unity in our school . That 's
all . This was n't what I wanted . But where is Tanaka san now ? Or because I
play the guitar , I like Pat Martin or George Benson . And I can see a house in
the middle of the picture . and I think there 's only one person who 's really
actually listening to the teacher . One day last week , it was raining . when
the movie finished , we were very enjoyed . My family ? And she 's cleanly
person because clean is very clean , and tidy . Just water . I like a climbing
mountain . I do n't know , but I have my younger brother . Because when I 'm
teaching English , only I give English something to students not to get English
atmosphere or English educational things . .... I like drinking . so I think
they should be more careful . I usually teach junior high school students at
prep school five times a week . just describe ? .... just send E - mail and
calling friends . on weekends , sometimes I go tennis with my husband or , you
know , sometimes we have to visit our parents . that was twenty - sixth or
twenty - third , maybe , yeah , year - end season of last year . But the buses
are n't working because of the strike today . A man is jogging , and some
children are playing with a ball . And second period , I had the computer
science . but it 's fine I could get the money finally . And there is a
typewriter there , and a dust box and a bed . My name is Charlie . So Hiroshima
City was named from the temple . And so that 's my new .... Do you know
Piccadilly Circus ? and then they saw the monkey . I like watching movies , but
I think I enjoy playing kyudo here . Then after two years , we got married .
Gifu district . May I begin ? I had to call JAF and they took my bike to my
nearby store , and that is why I was late to school . Right , thank you . the
elder is Saitama . After this interview ? But the street was very beautiful and
I went to a couple of museums in Paris Di Niro is gang and Al Pacino is cop .
And you ? But it cost much to see movies in Japan . And I remember very well . I
like swimming very much . one day last week , a man use the station . We could
n't hold parties inside our houses . a couple go to the zoo . I try to explain
my idea in detail . I want to go to another hot country . So , the South
entrance . this is a picture of ski resorts . we were not allowed to put the
earphone as well . I like shopping , but I 'm busy recently . I sit down . yeah
, was given a homework everyday . And food is different . A woman finds a final
sale of the shoes . Nice to meet you , too . I 'm from my home . You 're welcome
. Like more than fine hundreds schools in Japan , I kind of make newsletters ,
get information from overseas schools , and I can introduce that our company has
this great network . And , for them , we reserve or book restaurants or hotels .
In the weekend , I usually read books or the watching video , movies , listening
music , not going out so much , because weekdays , I 'm very busy and sometimes
I have to be in the office until ten o'clock or eleven o'clock . I 'm from
Hiroshima , from Gifu district . You know , I think it 's good one I can feel
relax . And the day I was planning to go back to Japan was four days later , of
the terrorism , in New York . It was actually a storm . you 're not being nice
with me today . Twenty five thousand yen ? In two weeks ? when I was in middle
school , some of my friends were playing that instrument . So I want to buy
something delicious . Shinjuku , example , Yodobashi camera . my name is Charlie
. And I went supermarket . Thank you . We as a resident of the community ,
continuously complaining the police . but I like maybe the neighborhood out
there . See you on Saturday . Particularly around of this hours . Free time ? He
read a newspaper . so so will you so , do we meet at two o'clock p m It 's
probably the climate . Call me Charlie . And , on the platform , he dropped his
bag on the rail because he run into a middle aged man . probably I do n't know .
Just a little second . So that 's the difference I find . it is she . I asked to
pet shop until . I 'm going to Kyoto . they go around the zoo . Tokyo station is
first stop on the Chiba line , so I can always sit down the seat . Do you know "
Alien " ? I used to belong the ski team . See you . Yes , of course . She can
get a job as soon as possible when she gets there . This is Charlie . And after
I came back to Japan last May , then we just started to just hang out . 
