And so this accident became the man on the motorcycle 's fault . Yes , please .
And then think about what we really wanna eat . the roads are n't this wide ,
first of all . So yeah , I do n't know about others . he runs every morning
around here I like Tom Cruise . And she was looking for a nice gift for him .
One girl is sitting on the chair before the desk . But very interesting . in
higher level of English or skills in the area . And ballet is the decide to
movement . because life . My father , my mother , and two sisters . yes , yes .
so I 'm very worried about maybe he think to play good person or try to be good
for adult . I hope so . And I just forgot about , you know , giving you the
phone that I could n't come . last weekend my best friend in Tokyo came to Osaka
with his girlfriend to go to Universal Studios in Japan . So I just sleep well .
But in here , like people are just like wanting to play around a little more .
Osaka City . something I ca n't do promise it . And I 'm going on Sunday class
because it 's the only available day for me . In Japan ? I 'm sorry . and after
that , I moved to Okinawa in Ishikawa Prefecture to study structure engineering
in my university . Thank you . I do n't know where to stay . Therefore , I have
a bit spare time in the office . can not it be done earlier than tomorrow ? And
so on . And this Japanese businessman was one of the person who was standing in
front of the lines . And people are very kind to me , so I have a very good
experience . Thank you very much . Thank you very much . We were very fortunate
escape the night from storm . Gifu stands for Kyoto . What do he do ? I think it
's a math class . And I do n't know , but they are really cute , I think . So I
'm going to find one shouchu for my father . I think she loves her computer .
And there , I copy . that 's a point , but you know , actually our favorites is
almost same reading books , sing , and part - time job . whatever happens to he
or she , who are from Japan , just smile , do not complain , do not protest ,
just smile and say , " It 's OK , OK . " . And unfortunately , the motorcyclist
dropped the cell phone . there are lot of old people . up of this floor ,
perhaps there are my two friend do you have another way to get to New York ? how
about your schedule ? I live in Okinawa . Thank you . To help some disabled
people ? and I 'm not really familiar with them . And I ran here . I forget they
age . And on the way back home in the department store , I found a final sale of
shoes . On the Internet , it was very convenient , but we could n't speak to
anyone . my name is Charlie . I like playing tennis . I do n't know what to say
. because nowadays , like , antique is only one in the world , most of them .
After this test , I get home . But I could n't stop working . And unfortunately
his tail lamp was broken from the accident . I 'm interested in a testing . In
morning ? thank you . Nice rings . I tried snowboarding but I did n't do . just
it takes fifteen minutes from my school , yeah . but they have much experiences
. in terms of this my say , working room Next time , I really want to join your
party . And the bike guy was left alone . After interview ? So I was doing that
. So she choose a good neck tie But I 'm get used to it already " , stuff like
that . It 's very exciting . no , I take subway to Ueno and then I take J R to
the closest station . I like red one , please . So we decided to stay at the
hotel . I have a sore throat my days ? The monkey eat banana . I 've never tried
skiing . so please sell me your ticket . Yes , I do . Do you know some action
movie ? Because I 'm not rich . but I thought I could ask my sisters they help
me take care of the cat . Thank you very much . And I do n't know . So I just
thought I try Osaka . So I did n't really think of " OK , I 'm going to study ,
" but I wanted to see the different culture . So I first watch the movie is ...
Shinjuku is movie theater in — But they moved to Okinawa . Yes , sometimes . how
about you ? Brazil and Guatemala . no , no , no . fishes , meats , vegetables ,
and something like that . maybe I will go to United States by job . So maybe it
will be crowded , I guess . And it blew away almost everything of our camping
equipment . My mom fell off with the sickness . So I 'm really nervous right now
. So could you please exchange the ticket or could you give back the money for
me ? And when I go to my grandmother house , she feel very happy , so she give
me many money . I can not tell you about what you can do after that . It 's very
far from here . that was last , maybe . It 's OK . we were too sleepy . Because
actually , the place I was living was Indianapolis . now , I 'm learning English
. I do n't have special plans . They live slowly and gently in there . but if
there 's another chance , it would be nice that you could invite me again . And
before the war , teachers are very prestigious job . And it 's very peaceful and
quiet place . I really appreciate what you doed for me , but , frankly speaking
, I can not make it today . And from the right , there came a motor cycle .
number three , we looked menu , and told waitress to my favorite hamburg . So I
think I can find out now . And she always ask me to join them . How often watch
the movie ? But I wanted to buy just tie I did n't have any injure . That was
great . Local train . the girl using her cell phone . But an hour later , it got
worse and everything started to blow and we could n't stay here any more . And
mister policeman came to — , and they were explaining what happened there . Then
I decide the flight . And she was eating and seeing a monkey . One day last week
, that day was raining . In comparison with the transportation in Tokyo , for
example , the time schedule of bus is not correct . I went back to my home town
with my wife . But recently , we do n't do much . I was very hungry , so I
immediately ran to the supermarket to buy some foods . Because I do n't have to
wake up very early in the morning . But the waitresses are older lady . when
wondering a shop , they may assume that this item is what they think they are ,
but when they bring it home and look through it , sometimes people find out that
the quality of that item is not what they had in mind . I really like it . And
it is fifty percent . I think so . Year , I guess so . And the wind got so
strong that our tent was blown off . And looking at the bright side of it , the
whole story , we ended up in a nice hotel room , bright sunshine the next
morning with comfortable environment , enjoying tea . if my sister is fine
because I have no idea in what kind of state she is in right now . The door is
half open . The police man understood the situation . Because dog is more
honestly than cat do . And repetition , you know . And , do you know Yurakucho
Marion ? Thank you very much . So I do n't really like buy stuff like I —
something — or no . I like suits . And I was told not to have driver 's license
. This is the famous Italian restaurant . But it was very good . Then of course
the other person is supposed to be around my car . I 'm living there with my
wife and my one son . So , and I also had to prepare for this test . so I can
stand there . You Charlie ? Yeah , it 's very hard to walk around at the zoo , I
think . And they 're very quick . And my daughter . because not so cold , not so
hot . and they said yes , and her persistence has paid off . There are students
who do n't really pay attention because they do n't really care . It 's hard
negotiation . And smoking . and ethnically also it 's really interesting place .
They just read the textbook and follow the textbook . But , when I need time ,
always holidays come . And when they got there , they built a tent and built a
fire and started to cook . And it was .... I will go to the supermarket . And my
dog . I 'd like to take interesting book . this is high school , so I do n't
think many high school students enjoy math , so I do n't know . I have a class
right now Economy class , OK . I have only a ten dollars . He was enjoying his
drive . he is sitting and he is working on a personal computer . So it is hard
to me to communicate with native people . just to the accident so it can not be
helped . Australia and Beijing and Korea and Moscow and Belgium . One day last
week , woman in her kitchen looked at her refrigerator to see it was empty . And
, yes , I think you have scale about for eighty percent to go pass through it .
So on fine days like this ? I just got out of a class in Arabic , and it was
kind of difficult it depends . So might be a good day to go shopping , maybe .
But expensive ... , not at all . you can keep the cat . " . what 's the point ?
And I stopped the car . But they did n't . one , I think because students are
n't interested in mathematics . And it was like the ticket I bought was five
hundred eighty yen . Nice meet you . Like it 's like a drugstore in Osaka .
Makuhari city . I think that is one of the procedure . By subway . my family is
five , but I have two young sisters . that 's the solution . Yes , I will . ...
describe the picture ? I could n't help it because it was the train 's problem .
I do n't like it . I a bit nervous because a lot of people are here . my major
is Shakespeare . In the second row , in the middle , a student is listening to
his , I think , a Walkman . it 's cooler than in Tokyo . And if we do n't know
each other , but we are talking each other . but I do n't think it 's bad maybe
. I 'm Ishikawa City , Saitama . This is just one time 
